Delhi LG asks for probe into 400 cr tanker scam ||||
 Delhi Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung on Thursday asked the Anti-Corruption Bureau to investigate the alleged 400 crore water tanker scam, which happened during the tenure of former Delhi CM Sheila Dikshit. Delhi's Water Minister Kapil Mishra tweeted, "Sheila Dixit should be behind the bars now for corruption...We have filed 3 FIRs against her for various corruption cases." ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c0153a10-0067-4a34-bb09-3502b92e355c-1||||
New Delhi, Jun 16 (PTI) A report of a fact-finding panel on the alleged 400-crore water tanker scam linking former Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit was today forwarded to anti-graft agency ACB by Lt Governor Najeeb Jung for further investigation.
The report by a committee of the Delhi Jal Board was sent to Jung by the AAP government for probe by either CBI or Delhi's Anti Corruption Branch following persistent demand by the city BJP leader Vijender Gupta.
Jung has also forwarded to ACB a complaint filed with him by Gupta accusing Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of "suppressing" the committee's report into the tanker scam for 11 months. Dikshit was not immediately available for comment.
Water Minister Kapil Mishra on June 12 had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Jung recommending either CBI or ACB probe against Dikshit in connection with alleged water tanker scam.
"LG has forwarded the committee's report to the ACB for appropriate action in the matter. He has also forwarded Gupta's complaint that the Delhi Chief Minister suppressed the report of the fact-finding committee for 11 months," government sources said.
Mishra today said that the former Delhi CM should be behind the bars for alleged corruption and that she was not facing any action as BJP was not keen to punish the guilty.
"We have filed 3 FIRs against her for various corruption cases and one in depth enquiry report which is with ACB now. My Report exposing corruption by Shiela Dikshit has been forwarded to ACB," he said.
Last week, the AAP Government had made the committee's report public after Gupta demanded from Kejriwal in Delhi Assembly to do the same.
The letter written by Mishra said the committee had "indicated" that Dikshit as the then Chairperson of Delhi Jal Board and other DJB members had indulged in "grave irregularities".
