Movie Review: 'One Night Stand' ||||
 Sunny Leone starrer 'One Night Stand', which released on Friday, is "saddled with an inept plot and shallow acts", wrote Indian Express. Hindustan Times wrote, "Burning issues like marital rape and career after marriage are treated with... a progressive outlook" while the Times of India called it "singularly superficial". It was rated 1.5/5 (Indian Express), 2.5 (HT) and 2/5 (TOI). ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/4eca089e-f856-4a59-a4eb-02f931a6b6d4-1||||
A hot-shot event manager has a one night stand with a beautiful stranger. No spoilers there, because the plot point is inherent in the film’s title: can’t get more explicatory than that, can it?
It’s when the roll in the hay is done and dusted, and both parties return to terra ferma, that this film starts getting a little interesting. Both Urvil (Tanuj Virwani) and the woman who calls herself Celina (Sunny Leone) realise that a little bit of unthinking lust can cause, um, complications.
That he, self-confessed Casanova who is always adding another notch on his well-shucked belt, can’t get her out of his head, and she, mysterious lady of the night, can’t be bothered, is the cool curve the film throws out. But it is unable to build on it, remaining yet another stab at a ‘desi’ ‘Fatal Attraction, saddled with an inept plot and shallow acts.
Why should boys have all the fun, why can’t girls too? Why not indeed? Good question, and amply answered by all the heavings and writhings, but, and this is the thing, they are surprisingly tame. Ms Leone’s vaunted past as an adult entertainer, the sole reason why you presume this film has been made, have been successfully and sadly tamped by Bollywood. Where’s the heat? (Read: Captain America: Civil War, Traffic, One Night Stand and 1920 London release at box-office today)
Sunny Leone is picture perfect, managing a couple of felt expressions in only a few scenes. Even her bump and grind is same old: this ‘duniya’ is still ‘pittal di’ ; where’s the gold? She will need to seriously up her act overall, and delivering dialogue is part of it, to be able to call herself an actress. Right now, she is gorgeous to look at, but we know that already, and struggling to emote, which has been her bugbear in her last few outings as well. The only person with any acting cred here is Ninad Kamat, who lifts the film whenever he is on.
For a film which wants to strike a blow for feminism and sexual freedom, there are some troubling misogynistic touches about ‘hot’ secretaries, and ‘stay-at-home’ wives. Careful, your slip is showing.
A song in the film goes: do peg maar aur bhool ja. Good tip.
Star cast of One Night Stand ; Sunny Leone, Tanuj Virwani, Nyra Bannerjee, Ninad Kamat, ; director : Jasmine D’Souza
One and a half stars.
