Opposing BJP, RSS biggest crime now: Kejriwal ||||
 Criticising the BJP in the wake of the protests in Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today said that being opposed to BJP and RSS is the biggest crime now. Centres new IPC- rape, murder or beat anyone. When questioned, just say that victim was shouting anti-India slogans, u will be let off", tweeted Kejriwal. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/62997725-0006-0002-2050-000012345678||||
Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who has not wasted a single opportunity to hit out at the BJP, said ‘being opposed to BJP, RSS is biggest crime now.’ His comments came in the context of the raging Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) row in which a student, Kanhaiya Kumar, was arrested on sedition charges for raising alleged anti-national slogans. The BJP has maintained that its government at the Centre will not tolerate any insult to ‘Mother India’ and those raising anti-national slogans would be strictly dealt with.
“Centre’s new IPC- it’s not a crime to murder, rape or beat anyone if u r from BJP. Being opposed to BJP n RSS is biggest crime now,” Kejriwal wrote on Twitter.
Also Watch | JNU Row: What Delhi Police’s Failure To Ensure Order At The Patiala House Court Tells Us

“Centre’s new IPC- rape, murder or beat anyone. When questioned, just say that victim was shouting anti-India slogans, u will be let off,” he added.
The controversy surrounding Kanhaiya Kumar, who is the president of JNUSU, began after he allegedly led a protest at which anti-national slogans as well as those in favour of Afzal Guru, the terrorist convicted and hanged for the 2001 Parliament attack, were raised. Kanhaiya, who is currently in jail, has dismissed the charges against him. After his arrest, a majority of the JNU community as well as teachers and activists lambasted the government for curbing freedom of speech of students and silencing them.
The Delhi Chief Minister has also criticised the city police commissioner BS Bassi for ‘deteriorating’ law and order in the city. Bassi has been under severe criticism for his handling of an incident at the Patiala House Court where a group of lawyers attacked teachers and journalists when Kanhaiya was being produced for a hearing. On another day of hearing, Kanhaiya himself was beaten and kicked by the same set of lawyers.
Kejriwal, along with his ministerial colleagues, had met President Pranab Mukherjee to complain about the Delhi police and the worsening law and order situation in the city.
