Congress seeks details of Centre-Naga agreement ||||
 The Congress on Saturday sought the details of the Centres peace accord with Naga insurgent outfit NSCN-IM signed in 2015. It asked if the Centre has compromised the territorial integrity of India and promised a separate national flag and passport to the Nagas. This comes after NSCN-IM chief Thuingaleng Muivah said the outfit had not given up on its demand for "sovereignty". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a3365bd5-6178-4756-82e5-471143456d8c-1||||
The Congress Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to explain whether the government has entered into an agreement with the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) “compromising the territorial integrity of India” and promised a separate national flag and passport for Nagas.
Nearly a year after the NDA government signed a framework agreement with NSCN (I-M), the main Opposition party has asked the Modi administration government to spell out details of the “secret agreement” and place it before Parliament.
While the government has been silent on the fine points of the agreement, Muivah has recently said that the NSCN (I-M) has not given up its demand for sovereignty, and a separate flag and passport for Nagas was not just a demand but a right, as the “Nagas were never under Indian rule.”
WATCH VIDEO: Political Implications Of Supreme Court’s Arunachal Verdict
 
“We want to ask six questions,” Congress’s communication department head Randeep Surjewla said. “Whether the Modi government has entered into an agreement with NSCN (I-M) compromising the territorial integrity of India.”
“Whether the government has promised a separate flag for Nagas in the agreement. Whether the government has agreed to give separate passports, other than Indian passports, in the agreement with NSCN (I-M).
WATCH VIDEO: SC Restores Congress Rule in Arunachal, Nabam Tuki welcomes the verdict
 
“Whether the Modi government has agreed on shared sovereignty of India for Nagas. What are the details of this secret framework agreement entered into between Prime Minister Modi and NSCN (I-M) general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah? Whether the Prime Minister will place this framework agreement before Parliament.”
Finally, the Congress has also sought to know whether the government will “take into confidence the elected governments of Nagaland, Manipur, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh”.
