Kiran Bedi appointed as Puducherry Lt Governor ||||
 Former IPS officer and BJP leader Kiran Bedi was on Sunday appointed as the Lieutenant Governor to Puducherry by President Pranab Mukherjee. The post was under the additional charge of Lt Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Island for nearly two years. "I look forward to giving every bit of myself to the responsibility," 66-year-old Bedi said. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/fddc217b-eea8-45b9-b136-fa0ad072a7a0-1||||
New Delhi, May 22 (PTI) BJP leader and former IPS officer Kiran Bedi was today appointed as Lt Governor of Puducherry, a post which was under the additional charge of Lt Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Island for nearly two years.
A Rashtrapati Bhawan communique said "the President has been pleased to appoint Ms Kiran Bedi, to be the Lt. Governor of Puducherry with effect from the date she assumes charges of her office."
"I look forward to giving every bit of myself to the responsibility. I am there for the benefit of the country. I am here to give my best every day, each day. I am grateful for the government's decision. They trusted me," said 66-year-old Bedi, who is the country's first woman IPS officer and who had led the BJP campaign for the 2015 Delhi Assembly polls without any success,
The appointment came three days after the Congress-DMK alliance won 17 seats in the 30-member state Assembly. AIADMK, which contested the elections on its own, won four seats while BJP could not get even a single seat.
The LG post in the Union territory had been lying vacant after the Narendra Modi Government had sacked UPA nominee Virendra Kataria on July 12 barely a year after he had been appointed. Lt Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Island Lt Gen Ajay Singh had been given additional charge of Puducherry.
Born on June 9, 1949, Bedi had led the BJP campaign in the 2015 Delhi Assembly elections but had to face the worst defeat in her maiden political innings with Arvind Kejriwal- led AAP winning 67 of the 70 seats.
An IPS officer of 1972 batch, Bedi had sought voluntary retirement from the service in 2007. She was then posted as Director General, Bureau of Police Research and Development.
A sports lover and an author, Bedi is a recipient of Ramon Magsaysay Award as well as UN Medal for outstanding service. She was one of the pioneers of anti-corruption crusade in 2011 along with Anna Hazare and Kejriwal against the then UPA government.
