Pretty accurate portrayal in my biopic: Snowden ||||
 NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden has said that his biopic 'Snowden', which stars Joseph Gordon-Levitt, is a pretty accurate portrayal of his story. Snowden, who is currently living in  exile, joined the film's cast via a live chat on Google Hangouts at the Comic-Con in San Diego, to interact with the audience. The interaction was following the film's first public screening. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0d79fed1-d8db-4a79-8701-a081f01cb653-1||||
Edward Snowden says that Oliver Stone’s dramatization of his story is a ‘pretty accurate portrayal’. Snowden appeared live from Moscow via Google Hangouts Thursday night at Comic-Con following the first public screening of Stone’s film, Snowden, to answer audience questions and interact with the cast, including star Joseph Gordon-Levitt.
Snowden said there wasn’t a lot of fictionalization in the film, which chronicles his life from 2004 to 2013, when he leaked classified security documents to the press. Gordon-Levitt said Snowden’s public endorsement “means a lot”.
Snowden in his interaction said that “I don’t think anybody looks forward to having a movie made about themselves, particularly someone who is a privacy advocate,” Snowden laughed.
According to him there was a “kind of magic” to the film and it has the potential to reach a large audience through narrative storytelling.
The movie apart from being a political thriller also highlights on Snowden’s romantic life where the role of his longtime girlfriend Lindsay Mills is played by Shailene Woodley.
In addition to looking at some of Snowden’s mentors throughout his career, the film heavily focuses in on his relationship with girlfriend Lindsay Mills. Shailene Woodley plays Mills, who Stone said was unfairly treated in the press.
The movie also has Snowden appearing as himself at the very end. When asked about his acting Oliver Stone stated it to be “less than natural”.
Produced by Moritz Borman, Eric Kopeloff, Philip Schulz-Deyle, Fernando Sulichin, Snowden a biographical political thriller features Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Shailene Woodley, Melissa Leo, Zachary Quinto, Tom Wilkinson, Rhys Ifans, Nicolas Cage in lead roles.
It leaks into theaters on Sept. 16.
