Clueless on being part of Dabangg 3: Parineeti ||||
 Actress Parineeti Chopra has said that she is "clueless" about reports stating that she would be part of 'Dabangg 3'. "This is news to me also...  That film is in its scripting stage but if that film happens, I would love to do it," said Parineeti. She is reportedly being considered as the female lead by Dabangg's producer Arbaaz Khan. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/91b84514-1029-46d3-8313-399cc85a8c9b-1||||
Though rumours have been doing the rounds on her working in Dabangg 3, actor Parineeti Chopra said she herself is “clueless” about it.
PinkVilla quoted Parineeti, 27, as saying, “This is news to me also. I read about it last night. In fact, I got a few messages from my team as well asking what’s going on. But I was as clueless as them. That film is in its scripting stage but if that film happens, I would love to do it.”
Earlier, Spotboye quoted a source close to Salman Khan, as saying, “Arbaaz Khan producer of Dabangg 3 feels that Parineeti would be suitable for Rajjo’s role (played by Sonakshi Sinha in the previous two installments). He will approach her very soon.”
Reportedly, Sonakshi Sinha has been dropped out of the hit franchise over an alleged friction with Salman Khan, which started when Sonakshi turned down Arbaaz Khan’s production ‘Dolly Ki Doli’.
Parineeti Chopra will not be seen in Arjun Kapoor-starrer Mubaraka. There were rumours that Arjun and Parineeti will be teaming up again after Ishqzaade for Anees Bazmee’s next film, Mubaraka. When asked Parineeti about working with Arjun again in Mubaraka, she told PTI, “No. Nothing has been announced.” In Anees Bazmee-directed film, Anil Kapoor and Arjun Kapoor are set to come together for the first time, where they will portray their real-life relationship of uncle-nephew.
“She (Parineeti) was not approached for the film. We were not in talks with her. There will be three heroines in the film we are yet to take call as the work on script is on,” sources said.
Mubaraka will go on floors by October this year and will release next year. The film will be produced by Murad Khetani and Ashwin Varde of “Shaukeens” fame.
On a related note, the ‘Ishaqzaade’ actress will also be seen in Akshay Roy’s upcoming directorial ‘Meri Pyaari Bindu’ opposite Ayushmann Khurrana.
(With PTI inputs)
