Give proof of anti-party activities: Kirti Azad ||||
 Suspended BJP MP Kirti Azad on Friday asked party president Amit Shah to provide "instances and proof" of his "anti-party activities" so that he can clear himself of these "serious charges". In a letter to Shah, Azad who was suspended by the party on Wednesday wrote that he never acted against "partys constitution nor against the interests of our party. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/09616816-0006-0012-3538-000012345678||||
Suspended BJP MP Kirti Azad, in a letter to party president Amit Shah, has asked for proof of his “anti-party activities” which prompted the BJP to take action against him.
Azad was suspended Wednesday after he targeted Finance Minister Arun Jaitley over alleged irregularities in the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA).
READ: Advani, other BJP veterans discuss Kirti Azad’s suspension 
“In all fairness and in keeping with the tenets of equity, I look forward to being provided an opportunity to clear my name on the serious charges of having acted against the party’s interests. I request you to kindly provide me at the earliest instances and proof that I have indulged in anti-party activities so that I can clear the air and provide you with answers to your satisfaction, confirming that I have neither acted against the party’s constitution nor against the interests of our party,” Azad wrote to Shah.
READ: Day after suspension, Kirti Azad seeks ‘justice’ from PM Narendra Modi
In the letter to Azad on Wednesday, Shah had said, “You have made several statements in the media… which constitute anti-party activities and such unfounded statements and allegations were clearly intended to bring disrepute to the party and its office bearers.”
Azad, a three-time MP from Darbhanga, said in his letter that since the communication on the suspension does not make any mention of alleged corruption in the DDCA, it made him believe “that the party has nothing to do with this matter and (it) is purely out of its preview”.
Calling himself a loyal soldier of the BJP since 1993, when he was elected as an MLA from New Delhi assembly, Azad said, “There has not been a single instance of blemish in my association with the BJP, which has given me every opportunity to work within the party constitution. I reiterate that I remain a loyal BJP worker and have no intention of causing embarrassment to my party.”
