Maharashtra plants 2 cr saplings in single day ||||
 The Maharashtra government on Friday planted two crore saplings across the state with the help of public participation. State Forest Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said, We have decided to plant 50 crore trees in the next three years. Further, a total of 400 crore trees need to be planted to increase the states forest cover from 20% to 33%, he added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/b7cb17c9-185d-40ae-bf89-df360db5d21e-1||||
Minister for Finance, Planning and Forests Sudhir Mungantiwar was elated on Friday at the success of the two-crore tree plantation drive. He said, “Today, it feels like Independence Day.”
“Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tweet terming the tree plantation drive as excellent was very encouraging and a boost to our efforts,” he said.
In an interview to The Indian Express, he said, “The decision to enhance the state forest cover from 20 per cent to 33 per cent is a formidable challenge which would require a sustained effort over the next several years.”
“For 33 per cent forest , we will have to plant 400 crore trees. In that sense we still have a very long way to go.” He has ensured the “desi trees” adaptable to geographical climate and useful like neem, peepal, ashoka, banyan are promoted instead of the exotic variety.
The two-crore tree plantation in a single day, he conceded, was just a step forward to the bigger challenge ahead.
Watch Video: What's making news
He said, “Frankly speaking, when I announced the decision of two crore trees plantation, it was to test our own capabilities. It was also to ascertain how much we could achieve and how much response it would elicit from people.”
A detailed report across 36 districts covering 355 talukas and 40,000 villages shows tremendous response from people across government and non-government organisations.
It was also laudable to see political parties setting aside their differences to join the campaign in their respective constituencies, he added. The forest department played a significant role without whose help the task would have been unattainable.
Mungantiwar said the task remains unaccomplished as the bigger challenge would be to ensure these two crore saplings are well guarded to allow healthy growth to full fledged trees.
The minister has convened a meeting next week to discuss the strategy ahead including how to take the tree plantation to the next level.
He said, “We have decided to plant 50 crore trees in the next three years. We will have to make provisions for adequate nurseries to cater to the demand in every district.”
The government will have to evolve a model allowing a village unit or a gram panchayat to set up a nursery. The financial implications along with manpower deployment and mechanism to monitor the trees which have already been planted are issues to be thrashed out at the next meeting.
“In the beginning we confined the campaign to government, NGOs and educational institutions. But we also wondered why not involve celebrities who can influence people in the campaign,” he said.
The minister said, “Today, I received calls from several film stars volunteering to take up the tree plantation drive in the second phase.”
From village sarpanch to elected members of state assembly (MLAs) many have taken to fields planting trees in huge numbers.
A sarpanch from Gadchiroli called to inform him that they planted 21,000 trees with the help of people. The reports from Nagpur, Buldhana, Latur, Osmanabad, Nashik, Pune, Pandharpur, Solapur, Raigad have been very encouraging.
