HC notice to Gujarat on police promotion policy ||||
 The Gujarat High Court on Wednesday issued a notice to the state government, based on a petition challenging the policy of reservation being followed for promoting State Reserved Police personnel. The petitioner, who is a head constable, said, "A candidate belonging to reserved category, even though junior to a candidate of the general category, gets faster promotions". ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c010b602-da16-42be-8a03-820adfab6dd3-1||||
Ahmedabad, Jun 22 (PTI) The Gujarat High Court today issued a notice to the state government on a petition challenging the government's policy of reservation being followed in the promotion of State Reserved Police (SRP) personnel.
A division bench of Chief Justice R Subhash Reddy and Justice V M Pancholi issued the notice while allowing an application filed by Dadubhai Chavda, a head constable with SRP Group I in Vadodara.
Chavda, in his application, said candidates from Scheduled Tribe (ST) category got "accelerated promotion" due to the policy of the state government to the disadvantage of personnel belonging to other categories.
ST candidates get "accelerated promotion" from the rank of constable to head constable as there is reservation of 25 per cent for them. Then they are promoted to the rank of armed Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) on the basis of their seniority, the petitioner said.
They erroneously become eligible to appear for examination for further promotions to the rank of platoon commander, he said.
He said that the roster register, which is the register of the seniority of police personnel made after taking into account the category to which each police personnel belongs, "is erroneous since it does not follow the law laid down in this regard."
"Irregular promotion of ST candidates has been to the disadvantage of police personnel of other categories and their opportunity for an early promotion to the rank of armed ASI is prejudiced," Chavda said.
"A candidate belonging to reserved category, even though junior to a candidate of the general category, gets faster promotions even to the rank of armed ASI," he said.
"This accelerated promotion has cascading effect when it comes to appearing to promotion examinations for platoon commanders as it requires an experience of two years in their rank of armed ASI. Deserving candidates who are still armed head constable, like the present petitioner, do not meet eligibility criterion," he stated.
Chavda sought rectification of the roster register and cancellation of examination for promotion.
