Hrithik criticises anti-Kangana Twitter trend ||||
 Actor Hrithik Roshan on Sunday criticised a Twitter trend titled 'Characterless Kangana' where Kangana Ranaut was called "characterless" and "publicity hungry" while being slammed for her alleged past affairs. "It is characterless to judge another. Whatever may be the case," tweeted Hrithik. The two are currently involved in a legal battle which started with Kangana calling Hrithik her "silly ex". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/5b9ff836-052e-4440-be84-d7a9b3e792c7-1||||
Bollywood star Hrithik Roshan, who is embroiled in a legal tussle with Kangana Ranaut, has criticised a Twitter trend which attacks the actress by calling her “characterless” and “publicity hungry”.
The trend titled, “Characterless Kangana”, features tweets mentioning her past affairs.
“I like her acting but not her cheap tricks CHARACTER LESS KANGANA,” one Twitter user wrote, while another posted, “Kangana used controversial way for making publicity. That is just so cheap. CHARACTER LESS KANGANA.” (Read: Kangana Ranaut records statement, Hrithik Roshan’s lawyer happy)
Soon after the trend began, Hrithik, 42, wrote, “It is characterless to judge another. Whatever may be the case.
Strangle the anger. Channelize love.” (Also read: Kangana Ranaut finally records her statement)
The two actors have been at loggerheads since the “Queen” star called Hrithik her ‘silly ex’.
The feud between Hrithik and his “Krrish 3” co-star turned nasty after they slapped legal notices on each other. (Read: Hrithik-Kangana spat: ‘Imposter can be tracked soon if Kangana gives access to his emails’)
Hrithik, who was the first to send the legal notice, has demanded that she apologise in a press conference and clear the air about their alleged affair which he firmly refutes.
A defiant Kangana, 29, had said she was not a “dim-witted” teenager and refused to apologise. She instead shot off a counter-notice to Hrithik warning him to take back his notice or face a criminal case.
Entertainment Videos by Indian Express
