Amazon Great Indian Sale to begin from August 8 ||||
 Online retailer Amazon's 'Great Indian Sale' is beginning from 12 am midnight on August 8. The three-day sale will let users buy electronics, home and kitchen appliances, clothing, sports equipment and other products at discounted prices. This year's sale will also include Prime-only deals, with Prime members being given 30-minute early access to deals. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/4f2b5a1d-46a4-4382-92b2-605093683f14-1||||
Amazon is back with its Great Indian Sale, starting from August 8 to August 10 and the ecommerce site will be full of great deals. The Great Indian Sale starts at 12AM midnight on August 8 and will run till 11.59PM on August 10. The deals will pan across product categories like electronics, clothing, accessories, musical instruments, books, shoes, etc.
The biggest change this time around with Amazon’s Great Indian Sale is the inclusion of Prime membership. Amazon recently announced Prime membership in India offers free fast delivery on every Amazon fulfilled order. The membership also offers unlimited free one-day and two-day delivery and free delivery on any order value. With Great Indian Sale, Amazon Prime members will be 30-minute given early access to best deals. Amazon had also announced that there will be Prime only deals this time around.
Amazon’s Great Indian Sale will have extensive deals and offers around smartphones, laptops, PCs, cameras, tablets and e-readers. Amazon generally offers flat discount across its Kindle range during the Great Indian Sale and with the new Kindle just being announced, the possibility is even bigger.
“With The Great Indian Sale, we are excited to bring together a marathon of exciting blockbuster deals from thousands of brands and sellers across categories. Customers across the country can indulge in this shopping extravaganza by browsing through countless offers and fantastic deals on products of their choice with assured fast & reliable delivery. We are excited for Prime members who can access Prime only deals as well as get Early Access to other top deals 30 minutes prior to others. The Great Indian Sale will offer shoppers a delightful shopping experience at the best possible price points. As always, there will be something for everyone on Amazon.in,” said Manish Tiwary, Vice President Category Management, Amazon India.
Amazon Great Indian Sale will offer up to 50 per cent discount on headphones and up to 60 per cent off on networking devices. Amazon India, in a press statement, revealed plans to offer up to 40 per cent discount on televisions, cameras and accessories. Amazon will also offer great discount in home appliances. Amazon confirms plans to offer up to 25 per cent discount on refrigerators and washing machines. With Philips Lighting, users can expect up to 40 per cent discount.
Amazon has announced up to 60 per cent discount on some of the best selling books and up to 50 per cent discount on Hindi books. Amazon is also planning to delight avid gamer with up to 60 off on video game titles. The Amazon discount offers will also extend to fashion retail brands. The focus this time is also on some of the home grown brands where the discount percentage is significantly high.
