21 missing in Kerala in last month: CM Vijayan ||||
 Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the state Assembly on Monday that 21 Muslim individuals, including four women and three children, have gone missing in the last month. This comes after recent reports said that 15 missing youths from Kerala have joined the IS. The state... is committed to take stern action against any kind of terror activities, Vijayan added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2ca19079-0d93-4126-a97c-1ecf6f215f1c-1||||
AMID UNCONFIRMED reports that a group of youths from Kerala had joined the Islamic State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly on Monday that 21 Muslim youths from the state had gone missing over the last one month.
Replying to a submission raised by Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, Vijayan said 17 of the people missing are from Kasaragod district and the remaining four from Palakkad.
The missing people include four women and three children. They left home citing different reasons, the Chief Minister said.
Quoting media reports, Vijayan said one Firoz from Kasaragod was taken into custody from Mumbai airport Sunday in connection with the development. The government was viewing the matter very seriously, he said, adding that it would take necessary steps with the support of central agencies, to tackle the issue.
Watch Video: What's making news
“The state government is committed to take stern action against any kind of terror activities,” he said. But, he added, it would not allow any vested interest to exploit the situation.
Meanwhile, more missing cases have come under the radar of police and intelligence agencies. A four-member Kannur family has been missing from the UAE since last July after they went to perform ‘umrah’ in Saudi Arabia.
The family of Muhammed Shabeer, a management professional, rarely contacted relatives in this past year. “He had made a few calls to us in last one year, but he never divulged his whereabouts and didn’t listen to our requests to return home,” a relative said.
Sources said Shabeer had been active in a right-wing Muslim outfit before moving to the UK, and subsequently to UAE.
A source in the intelligence agencies said: “The prime concern is to bring them back. They have left for West Asia via Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Mumbai airports.”
