Odd-even success proves AAP can govern: Kejriwal ||||
 The "success" of Delhi's odd-even rule has proved that the AAP can "govern properly", said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday. He said, "if you provide proper leadership, the people will act in a disciplined way." The scheme's successful implementation proved that AAP could provide leadership, "contrary to what critics used to say that we can only demonstrate," he added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/62157853-0014-0001-5535-000012345678||||
Hailing Delhiites for contributing in the successful implementation of the odd-even scheme in the national capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said it has proved that AAP can “govern” and provide leadership to the people.
Kejriwal said if there is proper leadership, the people of the country can do wonders.
“When we first took up the idea of odd-even scheme, lot of critics said this scheme is totally impossible. But now you can see that how successfully the scheme is running. Actually, if you provide proper leadership, the people will act in a disciplined way. There is no doubt about it,” the Chief Minister said.
“The successful implementation has also proved that AAP government can provide leadership and govern properly, contrary to what critics used to say that we can only demonstrate but not govern,” Kejriwal said while addressing the inaugural session of Bengal Global Business Summit here.
“The problem is with the system. Earlier people used to say that common people of India are not disciplined but people of London, Singapore are very disciplined. I never agreed with that,” the CM said.
I think if there is a proper leadership in this country and proper system and proper engagement with the masses, the people of India can do wonders,” Kejriwal said.
In his address, Kejriwal also said that he is aware how much tough it is to conduct business in India due to corruption and complex structure of the Indian system.
“I know how much tough it is to conduct business in India due to immense corruption and the complex structure of the system in the country, where even after paying a bribe your work is not done. You have separate departments, from where you need to get clearance for getting the work done,” Kejriwal said.
“We have simplified procedures in Delhi to get clearance and get your work done. Where you can get clearance on various aspects of conducting an event within minutes, earlier it used to take two-three months,” he said.
Kejriwal said he had saved money in construction on Mohalla Clinics in Delhi.
“Out biggest priority is health and education. Earlier it used to cost rupees five crore for constructing a Mohalla Clinic now I have made those clinics at a cost of Rs 20 lakh only,” he said.
