HC slams Delhi police for Shakur slum demolition ||||
 The Delhi HC on Wednesday pulled up the Delhi police for not giving any warning to dwellers of Shakur Basti prior to the demolition and said, "This is not a way to deal with your own citizens." It also criticised the use of JCB machine and asked for some liability "to be fixed for using violent force against unarmed people. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/28305111-0004-0012-2345-000012345678||||
The Delhi High Court Wednesday asked the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) to carry out a survey and share its findings with the Central government, the Delhi government and other agencies so that relief material reaches the people displaced by the recent demolition drive in Shakurbasti.
The Delhi HC also asked the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to depute an official in the area who will coordinate with other government agencies and prepare a report about the relief material being provided to the displaced people.
During the proceedings, the HC pulled up the Delhi Police for not warning the dwellers at Shakurbasti before carrying out the demolition drive. “This is not a way to deal with your own citizens… without any warning you demolished a cluster of 5,000 units. The way you did this by stealth speaks of something else… like mapping of criminals. The planning appears to be just like conducting a raid,” said a bench of Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Vibhu Bakhru.
The court also took strong exception to the use of JCB machine in the demolition drive and people not being allowed to even collect their belongings.
“Why can’t the belongings be allowed to be collected? Everything is in rubbles now. When the JCB comes, its a violent act. Some liability needs to be fixed for using violent force against unarmed people,” observed the bench.
The matter was posted for further hearing on December 22.
The bench also rapped the Railways for not conducting a survey before carrying out the demolition drive and not taking appropriate steps for the rehabilitation of those displaced.
“You do not do the survey. You only do the demolition every two years. Delhi is not unknown to slums. These slums have existed since pre-Partition days. You have to address the root cause,” it said.
The observations came in response to a bunch of public interest litigations, including one filed by senior Congress leader Ajay Maken, seeking court orders to restrain the Railway Ministry and Delhi Police from carrying out any further demolition drives in Shakurbasti.
