Lesbians, gays, bisexuals not third gender: SC ||||
 The Supreme Court on Thursday clarified that lesbians, gays, and bisexuals do not come under the 'third gender', a status that was given to the transgender community in a landmark judgment in 2014. This comes after the central government filed a petition in the apex court in 2015 seeking clarification on the definition of transgender. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/871eb633-32fb-45f3-994c-3c83dc7442ef-1||||
The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to modify its 2014 order on transgenders which granted them the status of third category. In a clarification, the apex court stated that lesbian, gay and bisexuals did not come under the purview of its 2014 order on transgenders.
In April 2014, the court had given a landmark judgement and created a third gender status for transgenders. It had also observed that transgenders were a socially and economically backward minority community and needed reservation like OBCs.
During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Maninder Singh, appearing for the Centre, said it was not clear from the earlier verdict and a clarification in this regard was needed.
A bench comprising Justices A K Sikri and N V Ramana said it is clear from the verdict of April 15, 2014 that lesbians, gays and bisexuals are not transgenders.
Senior advocate Anand Grover, appearing for some transgender activists, said Centre is not implementing the 2014 Supreme Court verdict for the past two years, saying they need clarification on the point of transgenders.
“Why should we not dismiss the application with costs,” the bench asked the ASG, adding, “No clarification is required. The application (of Centre) is disposed of.”
After that, there was a demand of recognising the lesbian, gay and bisexuals as a third gender too so as to elevate their status. Thursday, the court was hearing a petition by the Central government challenging the definition of ‘transgender’.
However, Thursday’s clarification comes as a setback for the community.
