Mad Max: Fury Road leads Critics' Choice Awards ||||
 The George Miller directorial 'Mad Max: Fury Road' dominated the 2016 Critics' Choice Awards held in California on Sunday, bagging nine awards, including the Best Director award for Miller. Leonardo DiCaprio was named Best Actor for 'The Revenant' while Brie Larson won the Best Actress award for her role in 'Room'. Tom McCarthy's 'Spotlight' was named Best Film. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/99517543-0006-0001-6941-000012345678||||
Tom McCarthy’s journalism drama “Spotlight” topped the 21st Annual Critics’ Choice Awards by winning best film and best ensemble.
Leonardo DiCaprio won best actor for “The Revenant”, and Brie Larson kept her winning streak going with best actress in “Room.” Neither star was present to claim their prize — DiCaprio is doing foreign press for the Alejandro Inarritu film. Larson is currently filming “Kong: Skull Island.” “The Big Short”, USA’s “Mr Robot” and Netflix’s “Master  of None” were also in the winner’s list at the awards, which
was the first year that the Broadcast Film Critics Association and Broadcast Television Journalists Association combined
their annual winners for one show.
“Silicon Valley” comic TJ Miller hosted festivities at the Barker Hangar in Los Angeles. “Spotlight” actress Rachel McAdams on behalf of herself and co-stars Liev Schreiber, Mark Ruffalo, John Slattery, Michael Keaton, Brian d’Arcy James and Billy Crudup accepted
the best ensemble prize during the show.
“I think we all know the true best ensemble are the real life heroes of Spotlight,” McAdams said of the Boston Globe journalists who exposed Roman Catholic pedophile priests in a front-age expose. On the television side, “Mr Robot” took best drama and Aziz Ansari’s “Master of None” surprised everyone by winning best comedy. Best actor and actress in comedy went to Rachel Bloom (“Crazy Ex-Girlfriend”) and Jeffrey Tambor (“Transparent”).
For TV drama, “The Leftovers” powerhouse Carrie Coon took best actress and “Robot” star Rami Malek received best actor.
Amy Schumer, meanwhile, had a big night. The actress-comedian’s debut film “Trainwreck” won best comedy. She also picked up the MVP Award for big year. Judd Apatow presented Amy Schumer with the Critics’ Choice MVP award for her work on Comedy Central’s “Inside Amy Schumer” and Universal’s “Trainwreck.”
