Kejriwal to create new platform to widen reach ||||
 Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is set to come up with a new online platform on which he can directly interact with people. A small team has been working on this...We have worked out a plan...through which he can stay connected with people worldwide, an official said. Currently, Kejriwal uses Twitter among other platforms to send out messages and address queries. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/b94630eb-d570-4b8f-82da-d1f2129d0ee7-1||||
He may be one of the most active chief ministers on Twitter but Arvind Kejriwal’s team is now set to create a new platform on which he can directly interact with people across the globe.
Sources close to the Delhi chief minister said that although he regularly answers queries raised by citizens on Twitter, it is not possible to answer each and every one of them on the micro-blogging site. The chief minister’s office also receives citizens’ queries through letters and other media. It becomes difficult, sources said, to answer all these queries.
“A small team has been working on this. They have devised a mechanism through which the chief minister can aggressively stay connected with people using platforms like specific websites. At present he uses Twitter to send out his messages, to interact with people. We have worked out a plan to take all this to a new level through which he can stay connected with people world-wide,” said a source.
Watch Video: What’s making news
Apart from Twitter, Kejriwal also uses Facebook to send out messages. However, sources said there are many things that need to be sent out nation-wide but the CM cannot go to every place. “Twitter, Facebook and letters are not enough for the chief minister to reach out to each and everyone,” said a source.
A team appointed to device a mechanism to expand Kejriwal’s reach has explored various platforms like websites, YouTube and setting up the chief minister’s own website. The team is expected to reveal its plan in the coming week, sources said.
With the AAP set to contest elections in Punjab, Goa and Gujarat next year, the party is also reaching out to a national audience to drive home its messages. After its victory in the Delhi assembly elections in 2015, the fledgling party will be contesting elections outside the national capital for the first time in 2017.
