J'khand BJP chief's son booked over sexual abuse ||||
 Munna Marandi, the son of Jharkhand's BJP unit chief Tala Marandi, has been booked by the police for allegedly sexually abusing a minor girl. The girl, aged around 16, claimed that Munna sexually exploited her for nearly two years on the promise of marriage. This comes amid allegations of Munna having married an 11-year-old last week. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/5aea64d6-0cbe-46b2-9b8e-24cc6824d0ac-1||||
More than a week after a local court passed an order, the Godda police have registered an FIR against Munna Marandi, son of Jharkhand BJP chief Tala Marandi, on a complaint by a minor girl accusing him of sexual abuse.
Godda SP Sanjeev Kumar said: “We have received the court orders and an FIR has been registered as per its directions.”
Asked about the sections, the SP said the FIR had been registered, prima facie, under the sections sought by the complainant. The complainant had sought registration of FIR under Section 376 (rape) of the IPC and relevant sections of Protection of Children against Sexual Offences Act, 2012.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
Two days ago, the girl, aged around 16, appeared before the State Commission for Women in Ranchi and alleged that Munna sexually exploited her for nearly two years on the promise of marriage.
Meanwhile, the State Child Rights Protection Commission (CRPC) has said it is planning to send a team to Godda to verify facts regarding allegations that Munna had married another minor — an 11-year-old girl.
State CRPC chairperson Arti Kujur said: “We will constitute a committee and send it to Godda to check the facts regarding the person concerned marrying a minor girl. I would have gone myself, but I have a serious injury in my leg.”
The state BJP chief has denied all the allegations. He told The Indian Express Thursday, “Who is saying the girl is a minor? Have the guardians complained that she was forcibly married? This is all being done by political rivals.”
District officials had earlier visited the school of the girl to whom Munna was reportedly married and found that her date of birth was shown to be July 25, 2005, and she was a student of Class 6.
