Wifi, CCTV, GPS buses launched on trial in Delhi ||||
 Transport Minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday inaugurated six Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) low-floor buses fitted with WiFi, CCTV cameras and GPS. The buses will ply on a 15-day trial basis with Airtel, Reliance Communications and Bhoomi Infotechs network on two buses each. Rai claimed this was a step towards their promise for free wifi and women safety in Delhi. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/59156406-0012-0012-3338-000012345678||||
Transport Minister Gopal Rai Wednesday inaugurated six Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses equipped with WiFi, CCTV cameras and GPS. The buses will ply on a trial basis for the next 15 days.
The six low-floor buses have CCTV cameras, which cover the front and rear seats, as well as the driver’s area. The remote-sensing cameras will show real-time images of the bus to a control room and this footage will be accessible to government authorities. Rai said, “This is a step towards meeting our party’s promises on the safety of women and providing free WiFi.” The WiFi facility on DTC buses will be free for the first 10 minutes. The government will decide whether to make it chargeable after it issues tenders and finalises the contract.
So far, Airtel, Reliance Communications and Bhoomi Infotech have placed their equipment on two buses each during the trial period.
Proof of concept report will have to be submitted to the government by January 15 and tenders for all buses will be issued by February 15. To access the WiFi on buses, users will have to share their phone numbers and authentication will be done with a one-time password.
Rai said these buses will run on routes between ISBT airport service, Mudrika Sewa, Outer Mudrika and route numbers 120, 964 and 781. DTC chairman and managing director C R Garg said the equipment will be installed on DTC’s low-floor buses and the standard-floor buses will be phased out in about a year. Of the DTC’s fleet of 3,774 low-floor buses, 2,500 are non-AC and 1,275 are AC buses.
Rai said, “There will be stickers behind every seat so that people know about the WiFi. People can send feedback about the service on 8130344141 through WhatsApp or aamaadmiwifi@gmail.com or use the hashtag aamaadmiwifi on Twitter”.
