Cow dung saves us from phone radiations: RSS ideologue ||||
 RSSs Akhil Bharatiya Gau Sewa pramukh, Shankar Lal (76), has said that he puts cow dung on the back of his phone to save himself from cellphone radiations. All children, men and women in my team, have cow dung on their phone, he further said. However, the cow dung should be of Indian cows, not western ones, he added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/f406e4d1-922e-44ff-83aa-40b4e24b8952-1||||
On a visit to Agra and Mathura, Shankar Lal, RSS’s Akhil Bharatiya Gau Sewa pramukh, 76, explains why he has cow dung on the back of his phone:
Why do you have gobar on your phone?
It is fresh cow dung. I have put it to save myself from the harmful radiations of the cellphone. It works, believe me.
Do you keep applying fresh cow dung, like people change phone covers?
Cow is our mother. Its excreta and urine are nectar and have power to save humans from any disease. If cow dung can treat cancer, why can’t it save us from a phone’s microwaves? Haven’t you heard that Junagadh scientists (in Gujarat) have found gold in cow’s urine (they found traces of it)? I put fresh gobar every week.
Do other members of the Gau Sewa also do the same?
Show, show your phones (he says, gesturing to four others, who take out their phones to display the cow dung at the back). All the people in my team, be it children, men or women, have cow dung on their phone. Why won’t they? They know its magical effects.
Can you prove that cow dung can block “harmful phone waves”?
See this pendulum. See how when I place it over the hand of this RSS worker, it starts swinging (he gives it an initial jerk). Look, this man’s body has so much energy and the pendulum is swinging because of that. Now, when this man holds a phone in his hand, the pendulum won’t move. This is because the phone’s harmful waves have sucked all his energy. Now, let him hold a phone with cow dung on it, and hold this pendulum over his hand. See, it’s moving again… His energy is saved!
What else do you do with cow dung?
We drink cow urine and have extracts from her dung, which has kept me healthy even at the age of 76. We make pregnant women eat cow dung and urine paste to ensure a normal delivery. We treat all deadly diseases with cow dung. But the gobar should be of our Indian desi cow and not western monsters like Jersey or Holstein. Their dung and milk are nothing but poison.
