Blast at B'desh Eid prayers; 2 killed, 10 injured ||||
 At least two people were killed and 10 injured in an explosion at an Eid congregation of at least two lakh people in Bangladesh's Kishoreganj area on Thursday. Reportedly, a gunfight between the police and the attackers also ensued, in which one attacker was killed. This comes less than a week after the Dhaka attack which claimed 22 lives. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ec9ad355-806c-4d15-972a-522b6d0e7886-1||||
At least two people were killed including a policeman and 12 others injured in an explosion at an Eid congregation at Sholakia eidgah in Kishoreganj area of Bangladesh on Thursday. According to Associated Press, police says assailants hurled homemade bombs at a police team in Bangladesh. The congregation comprised a crowd of about three lakh people. Eid congregation attackers in Bangladesh had taken shelter at a nearby school, firing on police.
The incident comes days after six armed men entered a cafe in Dhaka and killed 22 people including an Indian national Tarishi Jain on Friday. While five attackers were killed by the Bangladeshi forces, one was captured alive. Although, ISIS had claimed responsibility for the attack, the Bangladesh Home Minister had denied their involvement.
Live Updates – Bangladesh Eid Blast | Click here for photos
2:30 pm: Eid congregation attackers in Bangladesh had taken shelter at a nearby school, firing on police.
2:30 pm: According to Associated Press, police says assailants hurled homemade bombs at a police team in Bangladesh.
12:45 pm: Reuters report confirms that two policemen and two attackers have been killed so far.
11:50 am: Six injured policemen have been transferred to Mymensingh Medical College Hospital, reports Dhaka Tribune.
11:45am: As per reports, around 6-7 youths had attacked the police party with knives and exploded crude bombs at the site.
11:44 am:
ईद के पाक मौके पर बांग्लादेश में हुए हमले की मै घोर भर्त्सना करता हूं। मृतकों व घायलो के परिवारों के प्रति हार्दिक संवेदना। #Kishoreganj
— Krishan Pal Gurjar (@KPGBJP) July 7, 2016
11:40 am: More police forces have been dispatched to Kishoreganj. The attackers are still hiding in the school area.
10:35 am: There was reportedly a gunfight between the police and attackers near the blast site in which one of the attackers was killed. According to Daily Star report, the unidentified people have taken shelter near Azimuddin school.
10:25 am: One of the policemen has been identified as Zahirul Islam. According to local media reports, one more person has lost his life in the attack. However, Indian Express could not confirm it independently.
BLOG: Taslima Nasreen writes: If I were to be hacked
10:15 am: According to Dhaka Tribune, a hand bomb was thrown at policemen near Azim Uddin High School situated at a distance of around one kilometer from the Sholakia eidgah. The incident took place at 9:30 am in the morning.
9:50 am: As per local media reports, a molotov cocktail bomb was hurled at the crowd. The attackers are reportedly hiding inside a house and an encounter is underway.
Bangladesh Eid blast – Here’s how Twitter reacted
9:45 am: Bangladesh Information Minister Hasanul Haq told CNN News 18 that the bomb was hurled at the police party present at the spot. He also said that it was a political attack and did not have any Islamic agenda behind it.
Bangladesh Eid blast: All you need to know about Sholakia Eidgah
ISIS had warned of more attacks in Bangladesh. The country was on a high alert because of security concerns during the Eid festival.
More details awaited, follow for latest updates
