Dharmendra, Jeetendra felicitated by MNS ||||
 Veteran actors Dharmendra and Jeetendra were honoured by the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) on Monday for their contribution to the film industry. They were honoured as part of the Maharashtra Day event by MNS. Backstage artists including Chetan Sashital, regarded as Amitabh Bachchan's official dubbing artist, fight master Ravi Diwan and ticket-seller Chandrashekar Dhuri were also felicitated. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3d6db0de-b7c0-42eb-8d23-3f59a7522328-1||||
Veteran actors Dharmendra and Jeetendra were honoured for their contribution to the Indian film industry at an event here by Maharashtra Navnirman Sena.
The screen legends were felicitated yesterday as part of the party’s Maharashtra Day celebrations.
President of Maharashtra Navnirman Chitrapat Sena (MNCS), Amey Khopkar and the executive president of MNCS, Shalini Thackeray presented them with the honours.
Jeetendra, 74, who joined the film industry in 1959 with V Shantaram’s “Navrang” went on to star in movies like “Parichay” and “Kinara”, and over-the-top commercial outings like “Mawaali”, “Himmatwala” and “Tohfa”. He later turned producer.
While 80-year-old Dharmendra, also revered as one of the first action heroes of Bollywood, worked in films like “Bandini,” “Phool Aur Paththar,”Mera Gaon Mera Desh,” “Satyakam,” “Raja Jani,” “Dream Girl,” “Charas,” and “Sholay”.
The evening also saw many backstage artists getting honoured for their contribution to filmmaking.
Actor-cum-voice artist Chetan Sashital, who is often regarded as the official dubbing artist for megastar Amitabh Bachchan, fight master Ravi Diwan, sound recording artist Subhash Gawde, make-up artist and dress designer Asha Malpekar, door-keeper Suryakant Waghmode, ticket-seller Chandrashekar Dhuri, set assistant Dattaram Shelar and GM Dresswala and Surendra Wigwala, were among those felicitated.
“You cannot ignore them. These backstage artists play a crucial role in film making. Every successful film is a result of the efforts put forth by the backstage crew members. They are the real heroes as they add that much needed glitter to the film. MNS organized ‘Manse Salaam’ is an effort to honor the valuable efforts of the backstage crew members,” Shalini said in a statement today.
The event was attended by celebrities from Bollywood and Marathi film industries like director-choreographer Farah Khan, music director Anu Malik, Actress Isha Koppikar and former Sheriff of Mumbai, Kiran Shantaram.
Entertainment Videos by Indian Express
