Delhi SI shoots woman; commits suicide ||||
 A Delhi Police Sub-Inspector (SI) on Sunday shot and killed a 28-year-old woman before committing suicide at a park in Delhi's Dwarka. Police sources claimed that the SI and the woman, an ex-journalist, were allegedly having an extra-marital affair. The woman had reportedly filed and later withdrawn a complaint against the SI claiming he cheated and stalked her. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/96434940-0005-0001-6930-000012345678||||
A 33-year-old Delhi Police sub-inspector (SI) allegedly committed suicide after shooting dead a 28-year-old woman at a park in Southwest Delhi’s Dwarka Sector 4 Sunday morning.
Police said the SI was identified as Vijendra Kumar (33). He fired three times at the woman, Nikki Chauhan, before turning the gun on himself.
Police said Kumar had worn the uniform and badge of a batchmate who is posted at Uttam Nagar police station when he went to meet Nikki.
JCP (southwestern range) Dependra Pathak told The Indian Express that Kumar, who hailed from Haryana’s Jhajjar district, was allegedly in a relationship with Nikki.
According to sources, Nikki had filed a complaint with police that Kumar had cheated her saying he would marry her and was stalking her. Kumar reportedly made her withdraw the complaint in exchange for money, but did not pay Nikki the entire amount promised. She allegedly threatened to file another complaint against him, added the sources.
“The incident occurred Sunday at about 11.30 am. Kumar had asked Nikki to meet him in the park. People saw them sitting on a bench and talking to each other. Twenty minutes into their conversation, Kumar suddenly pulled out his service revolver and fired three shots at Nikki. She sustained injuries to her thigh, chest and abdomen,” said an officer.
Kumar then shot himself twice. While one bullet hit his abdomen, the other hit his chest, he added. On hearing gunshots, passersby rushed to the spot and made a call to the police control room (PCR). Police took Nikki to a private hospital in Dwarka where she was declared dead on arrival. Kumar was taken to the AIIMS Trauma Centre where he succumbed to injuries in the evening.
 

Nikita
“The woman’s body has been kept in the mortuary of Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. The autopsy will be conducted Monday morning. Relatives of both parties have been informed about the incident,” said an officer. Police have recovered a pen drive, a CD and an ATM card from Nikki’s possession.
Kumar joined the force in 2001 as a constable. He became a sub-inspector after he cleared the police exam in 2008. He was then posted at West Delhi’s Ranhola police station.
Police said Kumar got married in 2001 and had two children. “Kumar knew Nikki since 2010. She was a former stringer for a local weekly newspaper. He met her when he was posted at the Uttam Nagar police station. However, he did not tell Nikki he was already married. Two years ago, Kumar’s wife found out about Nikki. She registered a complaint with senior officers and later lodged a domestic violence case in Rajasthan,” said sources.
Nikki got married in 2011 but separated from her husband, added the sources.
“A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC,” said Pathak.
Ram Kishan, Kumar’s father, said, “We came to know about the incident after we got a call from a police officer. Kumar had a very cordial relationship with his wife. She recently visited our home in Jhajjar. We are not aware of his relationship with Nikki.”
