6 students accused of sedition resurface in JNU ||||
 Six JNU students, who're facing sedition charges for their alleged role in organising an event where anti-India slogans were chanted, resurfaced inside the university campus on Sunday. Umar Khalid and his group, who went into hiding post the February 9 event, addressed a gathering. The students were not arrested as the JNU administration denied Delhi Police entry to the campus. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/16386702-0004-0002-2464-000012345678||||
More than ten days after the protest in JNU against Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru’s hanging, at least six university students facing charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy for their alleged role in organising the event surfaced on the campus late on Sunday night.
Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya, Ashutosh Kumar, Anant Prakash Narayan, Riyazul Haq and Rama Naga addressed a small gathering of students outside the administration block.
The February 9 event had triggered protests in Delhi and led to the arrest of JNU students union president Kanhaiya Kumar on charges of sedition. On Friday, police had issued Look Out Circulars against Khalid, Haq and Bhattacharya to prevent them from leaving the country.
Cops at the JNU gate. Not being allowed to enter. @IndianExpress pic.twitter.com/vzkytWyYwc
— Naveed Iqbal (@NaveedIqbal) February 21, 2016
Two teams of Delhi Police at the JNU gate not being allowed to enter the university by JNU guards. @IndianExpress
— Naveed Iqbal (@NaveedIqbal) February 21, 2016
Police arrived at JNU soon after they received information about the students’ presence, but did not enter the campus. “We cannot enter the campus to make arrests without permission from the JNU administration. We will wait outside the campus if they want to surrender,” said a senior police officer.
The students said they had not appeared in public earlier, fearing “mob violence”. “We saw what was happening in the media and social media, and feared attacks,” said Naga.


While Khalid and Bhattacharya are former members of the Democratic Students’ Union (DSU), Naga is the general secretary of JNUSU, Kumar a former president and Narayan a former vice-president.
#JNURow : Umar Khalid, who raised anti national slogans, addressing students in JNU pic.twitter.com/QB9M2EZa3k
— ANI (@ANI_news) February 21, 2016
“My name is Umar Khalid and I’m not a terrorist. If Jaish-e-Mohammed gets to know that I was linked to their organisation, they’ll start protesting outside the RSS office,” Khalid told the gathering.
“I have never projected myself as a Muslim while doing politics on campus. I always tried to see exploitation of Muslims along with the exploitation faced by Dalits, tribals and others,” said Khalid.
“I missed you guys a lot. My only contact with the outside world was electronic media, which was painting a dystopic picture. I want to thank you for all the solidarity. You people came to show solidarity. This attack was not because of slogans, it was because the government needed an excuse. We saw the doctored videos,” said Khalid.
JNUSU vice president Shehla Rashid said they would be maintaining a night vigil and record all related events on campus. Till 11.50 pm, Umar and Bhattacharya raised slogans in support of Kanhaiya Kumar who is in judicial custody.
“Kanhaiya tum sangharsh karo. Hum tumhare saath hain (Keep fighting Kanhaiya, we are with you),” Khalid said to resounding cheers.
Khalid’s family, meanwhile, said they had heard from him for the first time in nearly 10 days on Sunday.
Speaking to The Indian Express, Khalid’s father Dr S Q R Ilyas said, “I got a call from one of his friends at around 11 pm to say they are all back on campus. They have all returned, and I am thankful for that. They are all safe.”
Asked if Khalid would be returning home, Dr Iylas said, “I would like him to. But I don’t know what they will decide. I hope he comes home, we have all been worried,” he said.
