Women attempt puja at Maharashtra's Shani temple ||||
 Four women attempted to perform puja by climbing on to a platform close to the shrine at Shani Shingnapur temple in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar on Sunday but were pushed back by guards. A month back, villagers had performed a temple purification ritual after a woman ventured close to the shrine. However, temple trustees claim women are treated at par with men. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/85571796-0008-0012-2902-000012345678||||
The Shani Shingnapur temple premises in Ahmednagar district witnessed high drama on Sunday when four women attempted to climb on to the platform where the shrine has been installed without a roof.
Entry to the platform is prohibited by a barricade and the women were prevented by security guards from landing on to the platform.
Assistant police inspector Prashant Mandale said that the incident took place at around 2.30 pm on Sunday.
“The four women tried to climb on to the platform to offer puja but were prevented from doing so by the security guards. The women have lodged a complaint against the security guards for pushing them behind,” he said.
“I will use my discretionary powers as to what action needs to be taken in the matter,” Mandale added. Asked whether the women would be arrested, he said that it hasn’t been decided yet. The women are associated with Bhumata Trust and are residents of Katraj in Pune city.
Trupati Desai, one of the women who tried to climb on to the platform, said, “At around 2.30 pm, we entered the temple and wanted to offer puja at the shrine. However, security guards did not allow us to go near the shrine. They pushed us down from the stairs, and therefore, we have lodged a complaint against them.”
“Nobody threatened us, we were only pushed back,” said another woman Priyanka Jagtap, who attempted to break the barricade too.
Temple trustees said that nobody is allowed to climb the platform. “Neither men nor women are allowed to offer worship from the platform where garlands and oil are offered,” said Swapanrao Bankar, a trustee.
A few days back, when an unidentified woman tried to climb the barricaded platform, it triggered a controversy. The villagers had apparently performed “doodh abhishek” which they later denied after drawing flak from some sections.
The trustees and the temple priest had clarified that women are treated equal to men and have never been insulted at the temple. The village and temple administration had hit back at television channels “for presenting a distorted image” of the village.
They had denied that women were barred from the shrine.
