Bengal to conduct safety audit of bridges, dams ||||
 The West Bengal government will undertake a safety audit for all the dams, barrages, and sluice gates it has constructed, state Irrigation and Waterways Minister Rajib Banerjee on Saturday said. Presenting a 2,791 crore budget for 2016-17, Banerjee added the audit will be conducted by an expert committee. Further, priority projects will be identified on receiving the committee's recommendations. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/b0e05693-a691-4d16-80ee-cec3607fcfaa-1||||
The West Bengal government will undertake a safety audit and check-up for all dams, barrages and sluice gates that it had constructed, state Irrigation and Waterways Minister Rajib Banerjee said Saturday. Presenting a budget of Rs 2,791 crore budget (for planned and non-planned) for 2016-17, Banerjee said that the audit will be carried out by the experts.
The minister said that an expert task force was presently reviewing the scope of balance work for the Teesta Barrage project, while keeping in view the change of land use and cropping pattern, present availability of water, viability of procurement of additional land required and various other issues.
He added that, “identification of prioritised works for execution would be made after receipt of recommendations of the committee.”
Watch Video: What's making news
Banerjee expressed regret at the Centre’s decision to “reduce” its share from 75 per cent to 50 per cent for all schemes with effect from 2015-16, thus “increasing the financial burden of the state government”.
“No central fund has been released for the past 18 months, in spite of the state fulfilling all statutory requirements,” he added.
The minister cited the Ghatal master plan as one of the key schemes yet to receive the green signal from the Centre. The plan, with an estimated cost of Rs 1,215 crore, has been delayed for over a year and the minister said, that due to the acute cash-crunch faced by the state government, flood management —- a key issue during the monsoons —- was being taken care of completely from the state’s exchequer.
The anti-erosion schemes for Malda and Murshidabad could not be taken up due to financial crisis. However, despite constraints, the irrigation and waterways department undertook and completed anti-erosion work in Ganga- Padma and other river systems for a total length of 18.90 km in the two districts during 2015-16 financial year. Banerjee added the work under World Bank-assisted national Hydrology Project (Hydrology Project III, since named) would start from this year.
