'Sarbjit' earns 13.96 crore in opening weekend ||||
 'Sarbjit', which released on Friday, collected 13.96 crore in its opening weekend. As per Bollywood trade analyst Taran Adarsh, the film collected 3.69 crore on Friday, 4.56 crore on Saturday and 5.71 crore on Sunday. Directed by Omung Kumar, the Randeep Hooda and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan starrer is a biopic about Sarabjit Singh, the Indian prisoner who died in Pakistan. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a7bd16e3-96b2-48af-8cc0-3195a42989da-1||||
Director Omung Kumar’s latest biopic Sarbjit, which is based on the true story of the late Sarabjit Singh, scored lower than what was expected as it minted only Rs. 3.69 crores on the first day of its release at the box office. Business on day two saw an upward trend as the film earned Rs. 4.56 crores, and the third and final day of the weekend further saw a growth with the collections going up to Rs. 5.71 crores. Collections on the fourth day witnessed a dip as the film managed to earn mere Rs. 2.09 cr with the total collections being Rs. 16.05 crores.
Sarbjit, which stars Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Randeep Hooda and Richa Chadha in the lead roles, struck an emotional chord with audiences. The movie’s story and performances of the lead actors successfully moved viewers, making them feel the pain Sarbjit and his family in India went through. Viewers lauded Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s performance as Dalbir Kaur and Randeep, as Sarabjit, left the audience speechless. (Watch: Aishwarya Rai, Randeep Hooda starrer Sarbjit leaves viewers emotional on Day One)
Bollywood trade analyst Taran Adarsh shared the latest box office collections of Sarbjit on Twitter.
#Sarbjit Fri 3.69 cr, Sat 4.56 cr, Sun 5.71 cr, Mon 2.09 cr. Total: ₹ 16.05 cr. India biz.
— taran adarsh (@taran_adarsh) May 24, 2016
Indian Express film critic Shubhra Gupta wrote: “First off, she is all wrong for the part, her attempts at the rural Punjabi accent slipping up every so often. If she had modulated her act, ‘Sarbjit’ would have been a better film.
I did tear up a couple of times, but only for Sarbjit. Randeep Hooda is mostly shown inside his dark, fetid cell, his hair filthy, his hands gnarled. He nails the look and the accent, letting neither overpower him, and is the only reason to sit through this sagging saga.” (Sarbjit movie review: The only thing worth watching is Randeep Hooda)
With better occupancy in evening night shows, one can expect the movie to mint much moolah over the weekend.
