No Day-Night Test match in New Zealand tour ||||
 BCCI has refuted reports of having included a Day-Night Test match in New Zealand's tour of India, which begins in September. According to BCCI's official tour itinerary, all three Tests included in the tour have a scheduled begin time of 9:30 AM. BCCI President Anurag Thakur had said in April that India will play one Day-Night Test in the series. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/5c05bac3-49d2-4d9a-9964-b4649fef2460-1||||
India won’t be playing a day/night Test against New Zealand, when the Blackcaps come here for a three-match series in September-October.
As per the BCCI itinerary, all three Tests – in Kanpur, Kolkata and Indore – will start at 9.30am. The Indian cricket board had earlier wanted to play a pink-ball Test under lights against New Zealand. That they got a lukewarm response from New Zealand Cricket (NZC) had already been reported in this paper.
The visitors will play three Tests and five ODIs during their stay in this country. The Test matches will be played in Kanpur from September 22 to 26 followed by Kolkata from September 30 to October 4 and Indore from October 8 to 12.
The original itinerary had allotted Eden Gardens the third match of the series but the BCCI revised it following a request from Cricket Association of Bengal president Sourav Ganguly. The latter had mailed the BCCI to rework the schedule as the Kolkata game clashed with Bengal’s annual autumn festival, Durga Puja. Dharamsala, Delhi, Mohali, Ranchi and Vizag will host the five ODIs on October 16, 19, 23, 26 and 29 respectively.
New Zealand will be the first of four teams to visit India in the coming season that will have 13 Tests, eight ODIs and three T20 internationals. England and Australia are the other two high-profile sides to tour; while Bangladesh will come for a one-off Test.
Meanwhile, going back to pink-ball Test, BCCI president Anurag Thakur had said in April that India would play one against New Zealand. “We have decided that we will play one day/night Test match with pink ball against New Zealand later this year.” Thakur, however, said last week that the BCCI was in “no hurry” to go ahead with the experiment. Duleep Trophy will be played under lights this term as a “dress rehearsal” for a day/night Test in the near future. And if things go to plan, the BCCI might host one against England later this year.
