Shoot me but not my Dalit brothers: PM Modi ||||
 PM Modi, while addressing a public rally in Hyderabad on Sunday, expressed concern over recent attacks on Dalits saying, If you want to attack, attack me and not Dalits. If you want to shoot, shoot me and not Dalit brothers. He added, I want to tell people that discrimination between people is not acceptable. We must stop this. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/9fce8b67-6ae9-4d21-b04d-c8f2f9f7e16b-1||||
Expressing concern over the recent attacks on people from Dalit community, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that there is a need for strict action against those involved in it. Addressing a public rally in Hyderabad, Modi urged opponents to stop doing politics on Dalit and asked the assaulters to attack him instead of Dalits.
“If you want to attack, attack me and not Dalits. If you want to shoot, shoot me and not Dalits,” said Modi.
READ | Fake gau rakshakhs want to create tension in society, take action against them: PM Modi to states
The Prime Minister, who on Saturday had condemned the violent activities of gau rakshaks and demanded strict action against them, said there are few bad elements, shortcomings in our society and they need to be controlled.
We will have to strive hard to protect our nation from such anti-social elements, will have to expose such people. “There are few incidents that are very shameful. It is our duty to protect and respect the poor and Dalit people of our country. What right do we have to ill treat our Dalit brothers and sisters? asked Modi.
READ | By speaking against ‘gau rakshaks’, Modi trying to save BJP in Gujarat: Congress
“I want to tell people that discrimination between people is not acceptable. We must stop this.” His comments come at a time when the NDA government is facing flak over incidents of violence against Dalits and Muslims by cow vigilantes in various states including Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.
Modi said at times some incidents come to notice which give us “unbearable pain”. “It should be our responsibility to save and respect them (Dalits),” he said without referring to any particular incident. Modi asked what right the perpetrators had to exploit Dalits and said the unity in society should be our priority.
READ | Bonhomie between PM Modi and Telangana CM as both hail each other
“I know this problem is social. It is a result of sins which have crept into the society… But we need to take extra care and save society from such danger (of social strife),” he said. Modi said the society should not be allowed to be divided on the basis of caste, religion and social status.
Deprecating those who try to make political currency out of such issues, the Prime Minister said attempts to politicize those would only aggravate the problem. “Those who want to solve this social problem, I request them to leave politics that divides the society. Divisive politics will not do any good to the country,” he said.
READ | GST to bring financial equality in country: PM Modi
Modi also thanked the opposition parties for supporting the Goods & Service Tax Bill saying it is a revolutionary step forward towards ‘One Nation, One Tax. “Finally GST bill got passed in both the houses. Want to thank all pol parties who helped the Govt pass this bill. This is a revolutionary step forward towards ‘One Nation, One Tax’, will help boost economy,” said Modi.
#WATCH: PM Narendra Modi says “stop attacking Dalits. Attack me if you want, shoot me if you want and not Dalits”http://t.co/CsmoKgm8KI
— ANI (@ANI_news) August 7, 2016
He also called for ‘saffron revolution’ in the country. “I say, there must be ‘saffron revolution’ in the country. Saffron is colour of ‘energy’. There must be an ‘energy’ revolution.
