Water crisis in Delhi due to Jat protests ||||
 Delhi government today announced that at least 60% of the city will not have any piped water supply after Jat protestors demanding reservations damaged the equipment in Delhi's major water source. The government has started rationing water supply and moved the Supreme Court over the issue. It further ordered that all schools be closed on Monday due to the crisis. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/28351578-0004-0002-2325-000012345678||||
Water supply to several parts of Delhi is likely to be hit after equipment used in Munak canal, a major source of water, was damaged Saturday by protesters demanding reservations for the Jat community.
Delhi Jal Board (DJB) chief and minister Kapil Mishra said nearly 60 per cent of Delhi will not receive any piped water supply after Sunday morning. The government has started rationing water supply, he said. “Extra ordinary situation. First time 7 plants closed down. No piped water supply possible after tmrw morning in 60% city including NDMC,” Mishra tweeted late Saturday.
The government has moved the Supreme Court to get the water released as soon as possible. “Delhi Govt moves SC on water crisis. Petition accepted. Likely to be heard on Sunday morning,” tweeted Mishra.
Visuals Of The Jat Agitation, Rapid Action Force & Central Reserve Police Force


Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia met Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh late Saturday and told him that immediate measures were needed before the crisis became “unmanageable”.
Lutyen’s Delhi and VVIP areas will be affected the most as water treatment plants at Wazirabad and Chandrawal plants have been shut, he said.
While water supply to north Delhi, west Delhi and central Delhi will be affected, south Delhi may face a similar crisis soon, said Mishra. “People are requested to use water with utmost care,” the minister added.
The government has also called an emergency meeting to discuss the situation, he said.
Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has discussed the issue with his Haryana counterpart M L Khattar, said Mishra. “We have no water to supply and we have no option except to ration the water supply… we are supplying minimal amount of water in the evening. We will deploy all our tankers. It will take at least 24 hours to repair the damaged equipment,” he said.
The government has cancelled leaves of all DJB employees, said Mishra.
