50 vans launched over Punjab govt's achievements ||||
 The SAD-BJP government in Punjab flagged off 50 vans with LED displays on Monday to highlight its "achievements" during its over nine-year rule in the state. The achievements include making the state power surplus and creating record road infrastructure, state Information and Public Relations Minister Bikram Singh Majithia said. The vans will also disseminate information about government schemes. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2b22ecc6-4095-4c52-96a3-5a96112a827c-1||||
Mohali, Jun 27 (PTI) The ruling Akali-BJP government today flagged off 50 hi-tech vans with LED display to highlight its "achievements" during its over nine-year rule in Punjab.
Information and Public Relations Minister Bikram Singh Majithia flagged off the vans from sports stadium here.
He said 50 vans equipped with a modern LED unit each, shall hold programmes across the state in the next few days and disseminate information about government schemes as well as "achievements".
"We will highlight both the achievements of the government: making the state power surplus, creation of record road infrastructure," he said.
"As well as (the vans) will spread awareness on various social welfare schemes so that the maximum number of deserving people can be taken under their ambit," Majithia said.
He said a complete capsule has been created around the film 'Chaar Sahibzada' - a Punjabi movie about sacrifices of Guru Gobind Singh's sons - which was in itself a singular voice against oppression and tyranny.
He said the film and the accompanying messages would be shown in villages in the evening.
Stating that this move was in keeping with the times and that changing times had created the necessity to update methodology of interaction with the people.
The Minister said inbuilt GPS system with latest vehicle tracking equipment and surveillance cameras have been installed on these vehicles to help the IPR department to monitor their movement and public response.
He said the project shall also be a "befitting answer to opposition parties who were speaking lies" about development done in Punjab during the last nine years.
