Public canteens to be set up in Haryana by Nov 1 ||||
 The Haryana government plans to set up Satkar Bhojan canteens, that provide subsidised food to people, across the state by November 1. As a pilot project, the first such canteen was opened in the Kurukshetra city last year with a full meal costing 25. [T]he canteen has been providing meals to at least 350 people daily, the city Magistrate said. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c164dfdb-43a0-44d8-b9eb-bbaa596bf163-1||||
After the “success” of the subsidised public canteen in Kurukshetra, the Haryana government now plans to set up such canteens across the state. The government has set itself a target of November 1 for the purpose.
One may not get hot idlis for Re 1 as in the Amma Canteens of Tamil Nadu or the Rs 5 rice-dal meal served by Ahar Yojana canteens of Odisha for Rs 5, but the Satkar Bhojan opened by Haryana government does provide a hearty north Indian meal for Rs 25.
Nestled among over 30 community rest houses along the banks of the Brahma Sarovar, in Kurukshetra - a pilgrim and tourist place that witnesses a rush of over 3,400 pilgrims daily - the Satkar Bhojan is Haryana government’s pilot project towards providing subsidised food to people, especially pilgrims and tourists.
Watch Video: What's making news
The canteen is run by Kurukshetra Development Board in collaboration with Janta Meal, a chain of small restaurants providing food at affordable rates, whose co-founder is a Dutch entrepreneur Jesse van de Zand. He alongwith co-founder Prabhat Aggarwal run as many as 30 franchises in Gurgaon providing meals for Rs 20.
“Satkar means reverence; welcoming guests with respect. Earlier, it was named Dal-Chawal Yojna, but Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar suggested we name it ‘Satkar’,” said a government official. The first canteen in Kurukshetra was inaugurated by Haryana Chief Minister, Manohar Lal in December last year on Gita Jayanti when over 60,000 pilgrims visit Brahma Sarovar.
“The target was to provide meal to at least 100 persons a day at nominal price, especially large number of pilgrims and tourists who visit the city or else we would compensate the organization which runs the canteen. Initially, not many were aware about it, but over the last two months, it has been providing meals to at least 350 persons daily,” said Dr Pooja Bharti, city magistrate and chief executive officer of the Kurukshetra Development Board.
On a hot Friday afternoon, as the mercury touched 34 degree Celsius, the small canteen was partially occupied.
“The food is good. Not very spicy or oily, as in other restaurants,” said Shankar Bandopadhyay, 45, who came from Kolkata with his wife to Kurukshetra. He pauses, while eating and says, “But, it will be good if they also offer curd along with meal. It’s very hot here.” The two coolers are not enough, and administration plans to set up exhaust fans soon.
Apart from tourists, the canteen is hit among local residents and government workers whose offices are nearby. “Earlier, we had to get tiffins from home, now we come here to eat,” said Ram Pal, an employee in the sanitation branch.
While, the infrastructure and land is provided by Kurukshetra Development Board, the food arrangement is made by Janta Meal, a team of 11 staff members, including Manager, Neeraj Chandra.
