FIR against DCW chief for naming rape victim ||||
 The Delhi Police on Tuesday registered an FIR against Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal for allegedly revealing the identity of a rape victim. The DCW chief had named the 14-year-old rape victim, a Dalit girl from Burari, who died on Sunday after being raped again and forced to drink a corrosive substance by the rape accused's kin. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3d94a605-6652-4b40-94e5-dee2d03657df-1||||
An FIR has been registered by Delhi Police on Tuesday against Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal for allegedly revealing the identity of the Burari rape victim.  Maliwal responded to the FIR in a series of tweets, saying she was not scared of the police registering a case against her.  “My fault: Raised questions on failure of Delhi Police in protecting 14 year old girl. Will raise more issues. Not scared of FIR. Jai Hind,” she tweeted. 
She questioned whether this was a case of vendetta against her for raising questions over the failure of the Delhi Police in protecting the 14-year-old Dalit girl. Maliwal added that she did not name the rape victim and, in fact, ensured proper medical care at a private hospital. “Firstly, not released name of victim. Instead ensured proper medical care in Pvt Hospital. Police arrested accused only after DCW Notice,” she said.  “Also, why shud rape victim hide her identity? Shouldn’t rapists be hiding? Is it the shame of a victim that she was subjected to cruelty?”
A 14-year-old Dalit girl died on Sunday at a Delhi hospital after being forced to drink a corrosive substance by a rape accused.  The girl was kidnapped by the accused before she was scheduled to testify against him at a local court for allegedly raping her. The Dalit girl was again raped by the accused repeatedly, and she was forced to drink a corrosive substance by his maternal aunt and uncle. The substance badly damaged her internal organs and she was immediately admitted to a hospital.
DCW chief Maliwal had hit out at the Centre and Delhi Police for failing to arrest the accused and demanded a high-level inquiry on the issue of women’s safety in the capital. “How many Nirbhayas does Delhi want? We all simply wait for next Nirbhaya to die,” the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) Chairperson Swati Maliwal said on Twitter, adding she “never felt so helpless.”
Last week, the DCW has issued a notice to DCP (North) questioning the handling of the case of the Dalit minor who was allegedly kidnapped by the accused just before a hearing in her rape case, subjected to sexual assault several times and forced to drink corrosive substance.
