Government facing full-scale internal war: JD(U) ||||
 Referring to the recent row between BJP MP Subramanian Swamy and Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, Janata Dal (United) leader Pavan Varma on Friday said that the NDA regime is facing a full-scale internal war. Varma added, [S]wamy has been given the platform to...attack by...Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. He further questioned the consequences the apparent conflict will have on governance. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0d923c41-9a54-45ab-b62c-8a1a586da911-1||||
The Janata Dal (United) on Friday claimed that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA regime is facing a full-scale internal war, with the main protagonists being BJP leader Subramanian Swamy and Finance Minister Arun Jaitley.
“There is a full scale internal war going on in the BJP. Mr Swamy has been given the platform to make his attack by none other than Mr Narendra Modi and Amit Shah who have sent him as a nominated member to the Rajya Sabha,” JD (U) leader Pavan Varma told ANI.
“It is known that Mr Subramanian Swamy is a very flamboyant and vociferous critique of Mr Jaitley. So what is happening was only to be expected,” he said.
Pawan further questioned the consequences of the apparent conflict within the Modi-led government on the matters of governance.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
“My question is was it also planned? And if so, why? What are its consequences? And how does it impact on the image of this government on matters of governance?” he added.
Pawan’s remark came after Finance Minister Arun Jaitley defended his key policy makers after Swamy continued his tirade against top civil servants.
“An unfair and false attack on a disciplined civil servant in the finance ministry,” Jaitley tweeted, hours after Swamy flung corruption allegations at Economic Affairs Secretary Shaktikanta Das on Twitter.
Jailtey’s reaction came after Swamy went offensive against top finance ministry officials despite Jaitley defending civil servants and expressing ‘full confidence’ in Chief Economic Adviser Arvind Subramanian earlier.
Swamy had yesterday said that he is not bothered about Jaitley’s comments on Chief Economic Advisor Subramanian and adding that he will talk to party President Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issues if and when required.
“What am I supposed to do on what Jaitleyji said? I will talk to the party president and the Prime Minister when required. Right now, it’s not needed, as I’ve said what I had to say,” said Swamy.
Swamy had also suspended his demand to sack Subramanian after the BJP reiterated that the party does not share his views and Jaitley expressed confidence in the CEA.
Swamy has alleged that Subramanian has adopted an ‘anti-India’ stance in the past.
