Mathura violence was avoidable: UP Governor ||||
 The Mathura clashes could have been avoided had the Akhilesh Yadav-led government followed the Allahabad High Court order to remove the Jawahar Bagh encroachers in a timely manner, Uttar Pradesh Governor Ram Naik said on Thursday. He added that the state government should take possession of such encroached properties and evict the illegal occupants to avoid Mathura-type incidents. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/8b0bd7fb-6f57-45cb-b150-564dcb0aaca6-1||||
followed: Guv
Kanpur, Jun 16 (PTI) The Mathura clashes could have been avoided if the Akhilesh Yadav government had followed the high court order in a timely manner, Uttar Pradesh governor Ram Naik today said.
Voicing concern over the clashes that left two policemen among 29 dead the Governor said whatever happened in the district was unprecedented.
"Whatever happened in Mathura was unprecedented. The death of two police officers besides the other people is a matter of grave concern," he told reporters here.
Naik said that if the Allahabad High Court's order for removing encroachment at Jawahar Bagh had been followed, the clashes could have been avoided.
"We saw what happened when the state government could not implement the Allahabad High Court's orders for removing encroachment at Jawahar Bagh. If the court's directions had been followed in a timely manner, we could have avoided such an incident," he said.
Naik, who had directed the government to issue a status paper on illegal encroachments in the state yesterday, said that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav had apprised him of details of the Mathura incident.
Naik said the government should take back possession of such properties and get the illegal occupants evicted in order to ward off recurrence of Jawahar Bagh-type incidents anywhere in the state.
In various districts, illegal occupants have grabbed government land and local courts have also issued eviction order from time to time but to no avail, Naik had said in a release yesterday.
In a letter to the chief minister, Naik had asked the state government to issue a 'white paper' on illegal encroachment on land of parks, grazing grounds, ponds and public buildings by individuals or organisations, a Raj Bhawan release said yesterday.
