Arrest incident shocked me: Kiku Sharda ||||
 Stand-up comedian Kiku Sharda, who was recently arrested and later released for mimicking Dera Sacha Sauda Chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, on Monday said that the incident had shocked him. I felt very alone when this happened... It was not that I was scared, he said. "There is no question of me intending to hurt anyone, ever, Kiku added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/97640938-0010-0001-7157-000012345678||||
Comedian Kiku Sharda, best known for his role in ‘Comedy Nights with Kapil’ said he was not scared about his arrest for lampooning a religious leader, but the incident shocked him.
“I felt very alone when this happened. It shocked me as I had apologized on twitter the next morning after I got feedback. It was not that I was scared,” Kiku Sharda said on video conference during a FWICE meet to protest against his arrest from the set of Comedy Nights with Kapil on January 13.
“As an entertainer, I rethink on my words even if a kid complains to me at a mall. I am careful because I want to make people laugh, I want to make them smile. There is no question of me intending to hurt anyone, ever,” Kiku who was shooting outside Mumbai said late Monday. (Read: Why should I alone be blamed, asks Kiku Sharda)
Federation of Western India Cine Employees, Cine & Tv Artistes Association, Film Writers Association and other affiliates of FWICE came together to protest against the horrific treatment meted out to him by the authorities treating him on par with other criminals. (Also read: Comedy Nights actor Kiku Sharda arrested for mimicking Dera Chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim)
Kiku Sharda was arrested for hurting the sentiments of the followers of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda.
The followers of Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh filed complaints in various police stations in Haryana, where the sect is based, under Section 295A of the Indian Penal Code that makes it a crime to outrage religious feelings of anyone.
Dilip Pithwa, General Secretary, FWICE said: “It all happened so suddenly to Kiku that we were taken completely aback, but today we are together here and the next time anything like this happens to any of us all industry associations with all our members will stand in front of the authorities and demand justice. We will not let this happen again to any of us.” (Read more: Sad Kiku Sharda’s been targeted, he is just an actor: Actor Vinay Pathak)
Actress Renuka Shahane said “mimicry is about imitation. And Kiku Sharda is good human being. My kids study in the same school as Kiku’s kids. And now, kids in the school discuss his arrest… If such misuse of law prevails, we will have to think twice before stepping out of our homes,” she said.
At the media meet organised to protest on the same, writers, actors, and association members geared in large numbers to stand up for Kiku Sharda. (Twitterati slams comedian Kiku Sharda’s arrest for mimicking Gurmeet Ram Rahim)
Amit Behl, Kamlesh Pandey, Aashish Rego, Dilip Pithwa, Manoj and Seema Pahwa, Ashutosh Rana, Renuka Shahane, Deepak Qazir, Lubna Salim, Salim Arif, Harsh Chaya, Vrajesh Hirji, Nasirr Khan, Dillzan Wadia, Zama Habib, Sunil Sinha, Sunil Matoo, Ramesh Goel, Akashaditya Lama, besides Om Puri on telecom supported the cause.
