I am not a social media person: Kangana ||||
 Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut recently said that she was not a social media person as she was a private person. "Social media is a platform to make comment on issues and to express yourself. I prefer to express myself through my movies," she further said. "My personal space is for myself and my near and dear ones," Kangana added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/98693269-0007-0002-9433-000012345678||||
Actress Kangana Ranaut feels celebrities should not be bothered about clarifying their stand after giving statements on the current issues.
Recently a string of Bollywood A-listers including Karan Johar, Shah Rukh Khan and Aamir Khan had to bore the brunt of outrage after they expressed their opinion on controversial matter like intolerance.
“The way you have expressed something and the way others have received, perceived, consumed, assessed and utilised is definitely going to be different depending on their outlook towards life. Pics: Here’s what Sunny Leone, Kangana Ranaut, Yami Gautam did this week
“So, that much liberty we should take. We should be thick skinned as that helps environment. People have loads of contradictory opinions, oppositions and neuro criticism. It is actually perfect to have contradicting opinion and there is nothing wrong in that,” Kangana told reporters here when asked whether celebrities should speak on national matters
The “Queen” star, who was in the capital to inaugurate a table reservation app by Big Fish Ventures, said people can have different perspective. Kangana Ranaut says ‘Rangoon’ character fiery, great dancer
“I feel that when someone says something or speaks something, it definitely goes through many filters, it is not that they want to reconstruct or distort it, its just that the other person’s perspective is going to be different,” she said.
The actress is not on social media and said she does not want to be a part of it as she is a private person. Hrithik Roshan denies having had an affair with Kangana Ranaut
“I am not a social media person. Social media is a platform to make comment on issues and to express yourself. I prefer to express myself through my movies. My personal space is for myself and my near and dear ones,” she added.
