Complaint filed over 'rigged' H'yana RS polls ||||
 Congress-backed candidate RK Anand on Friday filed a police complaint against the BJP-backed candidate Subhash Chandra, for conspiring against him to win the allegedly "rigged" Rajya Sabha polls in Haryana. Anand said a wrong pen was given to the Congress MLAs so that their votes could be rejected. Earlier, 14 Congress votes were declared invalid, which led to Anand's loss. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/cbdeebc4-28c6-4b46-92d5-84e654204c18-1||||
Days after he lost the Rajya Sabha race from Haryana to BJP-backed Independent candidate Subhash Chandra, R K Anand on Friday filed a police complaint against Chandra and BJP MLA Aseem Goel, among several others, for allegedly conspiring against him to win the “manipulated, rigged and hijacked” election.
Anand alleged that Chandra conspired with the other accused to “sabotage the process of election and secure a victory through fraud and commission of offences.”
In his complaint marked to Chandigarh Inspector General of Police (IGP) Tajender Singh Luthra, the former Rajya Sabha MP also accused Independent MLA Jai Prakash, officials of the office of returning officer, and others. “My complaint has been marked by the Chandigarh IG to the SSP. I have also sent the complaint to SHO of Sector-3 police station through Speed Post,” Anand told The Indian Express.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
The SHO concerned, Inspector Neeraj Sarna, however, said he had not received any such complaint, and thus no FIR had been registered yet.
Anand, an Independent candidate backed by the Indian National Lok Dal (with 20 MLAs) and the Congress (17 MLAs), had suffered a shock defeat after votes of 12 Congress MLAs were declared invalid.
According to the complaint, Anand had learnt through reliable sources that Subhash Chandra had met the returning officer at the Vidhan Sabha in the presence of several people a day before the June 11 election. He alleged that Chandra was shown the pen — a violet-coloured sketch pen — that was to be used for marking votes on ballot papers the following day.
“Subhash Chandra took photographs of that pen on his mobile phone and retained a paper having the marking of that pen,” according to the complaint.
Anand has accused BJP legislator Goel of replacing the authorised violet pen with another sketch pen of royal blue colour during the polling process. According to the complaint, video recording of the poll process will show that Goel had spent an unduly long time in the polling booth.
He said the official pen was “removed from the polling area in a clandestine and dishonest manner” in an effort to sabotage the election.
The complaint alleges that the 12 Congress MLAs who had gone in after Goel voted in Anand’s favour without realising they were using the wrong pen – the reason their votes were deemed invalid. Thereafter, the complaint says, ballot number 107 was given to MLA Jai Parkash, who again changed the pen with the original sketch pen and cast his vote with the official pen.
Anand has submitted in his complaint that it is a clear case of fraud played on the Election Commission and the Congress MLAs to mislead them into marking their ballots. The election was held under the supervision of Rajinder Kumar Nandel as returning officer.
Anand also questioned the process of conducting elections to the Upper House, asking, “How can you conduct Rajya Sabha elections through the Vidhan Sabha? Some independent process needs to be followed.”
