IFFK to premiere 50 international films ||||
 The 20th International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) will premiere 50 films from around the world in India as it begins the eight-day gala on December 4 in Thiruvananthapuram. There will be a total of 180 film screenings with several oscar nominees, and  will include five from Lithuania based on the countrys turbulent history and two family entertainers from Myanmar. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/59054407-0008-0012-0361-000012345678||||
The 20th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK), which begins here from December 4, will feature seven movies from Lithuania and Myanmar, officials said.
The five films from Lithuania offer a mix of the Baltic nation’s troubled history, while the two Myanmarese films are light-veined family entertainers that steer clear of political commentary.
Two Cold War-era movies, the 1966 “Jausmai” (Feelings) and “Grazuole” (The Beauty) from 1969, are listed as sourced from ‘Soviet Union-Lithuania’.
The other films are “Kolekcioniere” (The Collectress) from 2008, “Ekskursante” (The Excursionist) made in 2013 and “Losejas” (The Gambler) made in 2015.
“Feelings”, directed by Alimantas Grikiavicius and Algirdas Dausa, is a family drama set against the bleak backdrop of World War II. After being separated during the war’s closing stages, two brothers find themselves on opposite sides.
“The Beauty” by Arunas Zebriunas is about a sensitive yet impish child who is elected beauty queen by her playmates, and becomes convinced of her good looks. The film speaks of her struggle to regain equilibrium after her self-image is shattered.
“The Collectress” by Kristina Buozyte is about a speech therapist who struggles with the rekindling of long-suppressed feelings and anger issues.
“The Excursionist” by Audrius Juzenas chronicles the journey and trials that awaits a young orphaned escapee from a train bound for the gulags as she makes her 6,000 km-way back to her homeland.
“The Gambler” by Ignas Jonynas is about a gifted, compassionate paramedic with a gambling addiction.
Myanmarese film “Let Pan” (Red Cotton Silk Flower) made in 2012 by filmmaker Wyne traces the saga of forbidden love and forced separation, before taking a darker turn with a character with a mysterious past.
“Successor of Merits” (2015) by Shwe Pyi Kadone is about a rich kid who forsakes a hedonist’s life for the spiritual path.
