'Less forces at Punjab border cause drug smuggling' ||||
 Punjab Deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday blamed the Centre for failing to stop drug smuggling into the state and demanded more forces to be deployed at the state's international border. He added that forces along the state border were far less than that in J&K. However, Union Minister Vijay Sampla responded by saying Punjab's border is "well guarded". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d4cd2409-2475-4d6e-8644-5740d505815b-1||||
The state BJP chief and Minister of State, Vijay Sampla, said that Punjab’s border is well guarded, more strictness is being observed on it and it is not easy to bring drugs packets from across the border now. He also said that there is no need of deployment of more Border Security Force (BSF) troops on the same.
This statement of the BJP chief has come a day after Punjab Deputy CM Sukhbir Badal on Friday blamed  BJP led NDA government for not guarding the Punjab border on the lines of Jammu and Kashmir and expressed the need of deploying more BSF force on Punjab border.
He was talking to media on the concluding day of the BJP's state executive meeting.
Watch Video: What's making news
“Our Punjab border is well guarded and it has all the modern security equipments and even there are orders of ‘shoot at sight’ on this border if need be,” said Sampla when asked about what Sukhbir Badal had said on Friday. Sukhbir Badal had said that Punjab’s 553 KM long international border is far from the security pattern of J&K border and being used as a transit route of smuggling the heroin from Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Deputy CM had said that even he had written to Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh about the same.
When asked that on the first day of the State BJP executive meeting, the BJP’s CPS Dr. Navjot Kaur Sidhu had also said that the drugs was being supplied in Punjab in red beacon vehicles, visibly embarrassed Sampla said that he has not read so and ducked the question over Navjot Kaur’s statement. But when asked again he said that Navjot said what she had to say.
Dr. Navjot Kaur had said that ‘BJP de Palle Hai hi ki” (There is nothing in the lap of BJP in this government). Sampla was not ready to take such uncomfortable questions and tried to justify that there were no rave parties taking palce in Punjab which indicated that drug problem was not that big.
He also ducked question that the BJP party workers were feeling suffocated in the alliance with SAD and said that there were no differences with the alliance partner at all.
Over the Post matric scholarship scheme, which is meant for the SC students, he said that centre had released Rs. 106 crores earlier and Rs. 173 crores recently. When asked why this amount was not reaching the beneficiaries (Students) in Punjab for the past two years and where the grant was going, he said that from next year the amount of this scheme would directly be transferred in the accounts of the students under Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme.
He re-iterated the all the hurdles have sorted out for setting up of domestic airport at the Adampur Air force station and Rs. 62 crores have been earmarked for the same out of which Rs. 31 crore is state’s share but centre is ready to give all the amount.
