4 more succumb to jaundice in Shimla ||||
 The death toll in the jaundice outbreak in Shimla rose to 11 on Saturday after four more people succumbed to the disease. Over half of the families in the town have been affected by the disease since December 2015. Shimla's lawyers have criticised the state government and proposed to "take up the issue with the courts and through public protests". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/54702894-0011-0002-2387-000012345678||||
Four more people succumbed to jaundice in the last 60 hours in Shimla, taking the death toll in the outbreak to 11. Over half of the families in the town have also been affected by the disease in the past two-and-a-half months.
The latest patient to pass away was Jagdish Vats, a leading high court lawyer who died on Saturday morning. He had been referred to PGI Chandigarh from IGMC three days ago. “Vats had tested positive for Hepatitis E. His condition did not improve,” said Dr Ramesh Chand, senior medical superintendent at the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla.
The three other victims are Onkar Nath (74), who died at IGMC on Friday night; 25-yr-old Surpiya, wife of lawyer Raman Jamalta who passed away on Thursday; and lawyer Rakesh Chandel, who also died on Thursday.
The deaths have angered the town’s lawyers, who now propose to take up the issue with the state High Court. “The situation is alarming and the government machinery including Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh and IPH Minister Vidya Stokes have not responded with the seriousness that it requires. We will take up the issue with the courts and through public protests,” said High Court lawyer Rajneesh Maniklata.
“We will ask the court and also erring government to fix responsibility for the deaths. The families must be compensated out of the salaries drawn by the officials who were supposed to supply clean drinking water to the town,” said another lawyer, Navlesh Verma.
All eyes are now on High Court, which opens after a two-month break on Monday. Lawyers say they may strike work on Monday as a mark of respect to Vats and others who have lost their lives to jaundice. They may also take out a march in Shimla.
The outbreak has been traced to contaminated water being supplied to Shimla from the Ashwani Khad, the rivulet that is the town’s main drinking water source. The contamination has been caused by sewage making its way into the rivulet as the Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at Malyana has been non-functional.
Shimla Mayor Sanjay Chauhan got the supply of water from Ashwani Khad stopped in December 2015.
