'If Salman feels the need to apologise, he will' ||||
 Actor Salman Khan's brother Arbaaz Khan has said that Salman will apologise for comparing himself to a "raped woman" if he feels there is a need for it, as his "intention was not wrong". Arbaaz added, "It was a comparison... (like) saying... I worked like a donkey. Now, will the usage of the word donkey make animal activists upset?" ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/388a8c14-6f96-426a-a4ff-75ec09aa5c0b-1||||
Actor Arbaaz Khan is standing by his brother Salman Khan on the ‘raped woman’ comment controversy. Arbaaz feels that though Salman’s intention behind his comments were not wrong, the superstar should issue a clarification on what he said because that has currently landed him in hot waters.
Defending Salman, Arbaaz said, “There are certain things which we say while talking and it is important to see the intention with which it was said. There is no doubt that whatever Salman said, the intention was not wrong. It was a comparison quite akin to someone saying there was a huge mountain on my shoulders or I worked like a donkey. Now, will the usage of the word ‘donkey’ make animal activists upset? Sometimes, certain things you say are out of context and the meaning which is not bad. But if you become over sensitive over it, then it will become a controversial issue. I am sure Salman must have realised the comparisons that he made was not maybe appropriate and for that if he feels the need to apologise, he will apologise or not apologise, it’s up to him. I don’t think it is fair if I say he has to apologise or not.”
Commenting on the need for Salman to issue a clarification to settle things, Arbaaz said, “If he has said something out of context and if by mistake he said it then maybe he should give a justification. But I don’t think I am entitled to make a comment and say he has to apologise. I hope he gives a clarification for whatever controversy has happened because it is important to give an answer as people look up to him. He has lot of followers and is a youth icon. So if he has made a statement that doesn’t look appropriate and is not sounding pleasant to ears, then in time he will give a statement.”
Arbaaz also expressed his displeasure at being asked to comment on every issue of Salman. “Not every question or every incident that happens with Salman, I am answerable to. Whether Salman is getting married or not, who is Salman’s girlfriend, what is salman saying…Salman is a 50-year-old man. He says things to media and lives his own life. I am asked you know what Salman said? I have not kept a GPRS on Salman to track him or know what he has been doing. I didn’t know and couldn’t comment until I heard it in the evening,” said Arbaaz.
