AgustaWestland: CBI questions ex-IAF chief Tyagi ||||
 The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday questioned former Indian Air Force chief SP Tyagi in connection with the multi-crore AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal. While the CBI had grilled Tyagi earlier in the case, this is the first time he has been questioned after the Italian court's order on alleged bribes paid in the scandal mentioned his name. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d87c69b2-eebc-4c02-88fb-819fdd115e66-1||||
The CBI Monday examined former IAF chief S P Tyagi in connection with its probe into bribery charges in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal. Sources in CBI said Tyagi had visited Florence, Milan and Venice after retirement, and the purpose of these trips are under investigation.
According to sources, Tyagi’s cousins — Sanjeev, Rajeev and Sandeep — will be examined soon. Delhi-based lawyer Gautam Khaitan, who allegedly played a key role in moving the bribe money, is likely to be examined Wednesday.
Tyagi arrived at the CBI headquarters in New Delhi around 10 am and was examined till late in the evening. He will be examined again Tuesday. “The examination is with regard to bribery allegations in the case in light of recent developments in Italy, especially the court judgment there,” a CBI official said.
WATCH VIDEO| AgustaWestland: Why Is It A Big Deal Politically Now?

The Milan Court of Appeals—the equivalent of a High Court in India — has, in its recent order, given details of how alleged bribes were paid by helicopter-maker AgustaWestland, a subsidiary of Finmeccanica, to Indian officials through middlemen to clinch the deal. Tyagi’s name is mentioned in the court order at several points.
The CBI official said: “We have now learned that Tyagi (had) visited Italy after he retired. We are finding out the purpose and details of his visit. He retired
in 2007, and in 2008 or 2009 he visited Florence, Milan and Venice. We are also checking details of his bank accounts and other assets.”
CBI had lodged a case against Tyagi and 12 others, including Sanjeev, Rajeev and Sandeep, and European middlemen Carlo Gerosa, Guido Haschke and Christian Michel. The agency has alleged that Tyagi had reduced the service ceiling — the maximum height at which a helicopter can perform normally — from 6,000 m to 4,500 m to purportedly let AgustaWestland be eligible for the bids, as its AW-101 helicopter was not eligible for submission of bids at the original ceiling.
Tyagi has denied the allegations and has claimed that the decision to reduce the ceiling was taken by a group of senior officials. The decision was taken in consultation with the Special Protection Group (SPG) and other top officials of the Prime Minister’s Office, he has said.
The verdict of the Milan Appellate Court says Tyagi met several AgustaWestland officials in the presence of his cousins when he was the IAF chief. It says that even before he became chief, Tyagi was aware of the change in specifications. He is said to have passed on that knowledge to AgustaWestland officials through his cousins, and through the middlemen.
Tyagi was not available for a comment despite attempts.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
