LeEco launches Supertainment package in india ||||
 China-based LeEco has launched a Supertainment package for its smartphones in India featuring content, storage, live TV and other services like music, movies and sports. It has partnered with various content providers for the service, which is priced at 490 per month. The company also launched Le 1s Eco smartphone at 10,899, which comes with a free one-year Supertainment subscription. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/347c3f8e-38fe-4b5e-ba34-4eefacff5c1a-1||||
Chinese internet and technology company LeEco has launched a new ‘Supertainment’ package for its smartphones in India. LeEco wants to get into the entertainment and content side as well, and has tied up with some players in India. Content bundled with hardware is an area that not too many players in India are currently exploring.
LeEco’s first device with this kind of content bundling is the Le 1s Eco, which has the exact same specs as the Le 1s, but with a big differentiator: the Supertainment package free on board. LeEco has partnered with Eros Now, YuppTv and Hungama music for the content. “We don’t want to be known as just a smartphone company or an entertainment company,” says Atul Jain, COO, LeEco India.
“We call ourselves an ecosystem because content is just as important as the device screen. Thus, we have to enable the content to be seen on the device screen in the right way. If you don’t have cloud storage, content delivery systems (CDN) etc, but you have the device, you will not be able to provide the right experience to users,” he adds.
Watch Video LeEco Le 1s Eco With Supertainment Package Launched At Rs 10,899



The biggest challenge, however, is to make content run smoothly for users in India who are still on 2G or end up getting 2G-like speeds even on a 3G network. Jain admits that while the company has about 680 CDNs in place, a user will have to upgrade to 3G or 4G networks for a richer experience.
LeEco also unveiled its Levidi app, which is an integrated platform for more than 2000 movies across various languages like Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Punjabi, Marathi, Gujarati, Kannada, Malayalam, Bengali and English. The app will be available to all LeEco devices via an OTA update on May 24.
Also see: LeEco Le 1s Eco with Supertainment package launched at Rs 10,899
Asked whether, LeEco is planning to launch any original content in India, Jain said the company is working on it, and will roll out something soon.
Le 1s Eco also has a live button, backed by YuppTv, with live streams from more than 100 channels like Sony, Gemini Movies, Times Now, Nickelodeon, Colors etc. Users can play nine live-streams at one time via this button.
The biggest advantage of Le 1s (Eco), Jain says, is that it integrates entertainment from different sources, all at one place, saving time for users.
Le 1s (Eco), which goes on sale with Supertainment package for Rs 9,999 on Flipkart on May 12, also comes with 5 TB cloud storage. The cloud storage fee is included in the Supertainment package, says Jain. While Le 1s (Eco) is available at Rs 9,999; yearly subscription of LeEco’s Supertainment package costs Rs 4,900.
Atul Jain also confirmed that Le 2 and Le Max 2, which were recently launched in China will come to India within two months.
Watch all our video reviews
Le 2 comes with a 5.5-inch full HD display and is powered by Mediatek’s new Helio X20 deca-core processor, 3GB RAM, 32GB storage space and a 16-mp rear camera plus eight-mp front camera.
Le Max 2 comes with a 5.7-inch 2K display, Qualcomm 820 processor clocked at 2.15 GHz, Adreno 530 GPU. It has a 21-mp rear camera and an eight-mp front camera. LeEco is also planning to invest in ‘Make in India’ soon.
Read more: LeEco’s ambitious plans involves shifting the focus to content
Also see: LeEco Le 2, Le 2 Pro and Le Max launch in China
