BJP submits Kairana report, demands CBI probe ||||
 The BJP on Friday submitted its report to UP Governor Ram Naik on the exodus of Hindu families from Kairana. BJP leaders, while calling for a CBI probe into the matter, alleged that criminals enjoying the ruling Samajwadi Party's patronage were running extortion networks. However, a district administration report said three families of the claimed 346 had migrated over 'extortion'. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/68e173c5-f31a-47fe-acb5-b5bbca59e6f3-1||||
Lucknow, Jun 17 (PTI) BJP today demanded a CBI inquiry into the alleged Hindu migration in Kairana and charged the ruling Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh with giving protection to criminals from a "particular community" inciting terror there.
BJP UP chief Keshav Prasad Maurya, who led a delegation to Governor Ram Naik today, later told reporters that he has apprised the Governor of the "real situation" in Kairana in Shamli district of western UP.
"The party has submitted a memorandum to the Governor apprising him of the real situation there and demanding a CBI inquiry," Maurya said.
"The report of our (BJP's) probe team which visited Kairana was also submitted to the Governor," he added.
The convenor of the probe team, Suresh Khanna, and Kairana MP Hukum Singh, who had first raised the issue of migration, were also present. They described the situation in Kairana as "much more serious than being projected", adding that a CBI probe is the need of the hour.
The Governor has assured the BJP delegation of taking up the matter with Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav. He has also assured to send a copy of the memorandum to the President, they said.
The BJP leaders alleged that criminals like Mukim Lala and Furkan enjoyed the patronage of the SP and thus, were running their extortion network from jail.
These criminals have been accused of unleashing a reign of terror in Kairana that led to the Hindu migration, they added.
The BJP leaders also alleged that facing pressure from the ruling party, officials asked the oppressed to adjust and discriminated on the basis of religion.
Claiming that the list of migrants submitted by him was a correct account, Hukum Singh maintained that the migration was linked to crime and patronage to criminals from a "particular community".
"There are large number of Muslims in Kairana and hence, some political parties are out to give it a communal colour," Singh, who has been elected to the Assembly seven times from Kairana, said.
