VHP supporters try to disrupt SRK's Raees shoot ||||
 Local police detained 34 Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) supporters on Friday who tried to disrupt the shooting of Shah Rukh Khan's upcoming movie 'Raees' in Mandvi, Gujarat. The protest against SRK was allegedly owing to him "indulging in making statements on issues like intolerance", as per the protesters. This was the third protest that the film's crew faced in Mandvi. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/41960695-0006-0002-0098-000012345678||||
Vishwa Hindu Parishad supporters on Friday blocked a road and tried to disturb shooting of Shahrukh Khan starrer movie Raees in Mandavi taluka of Kutch district but they were detained by police.
VHP supporters blocked the Poladiya-Mau road in Mandavi taluka in protest of Khan’s shooting. However, as they did not disperse despite repeated warnings, Gadh Shisha police detained 34 protesters at 12:30pm. Raghuvirsinh Jadeja, president of Mandavi taluka unit of VHP was among those who were detained.
The protesters were brought to Gadh Shisha police station and were released at 1:15 pm with police saying that the shooting went on as scheduled.
“The shooting had begun at around 9 am and went on till 7 pm. We stopped the protesters on their way to the spot where shooting was going on and therefore it was not disturbed,” Chandrasinh Vaghela, in-charge police inspector of Gadh Shisha told The Indian Express.
It is for the third time that Shahrukh Khan and the unit of Raees have faced protests since they landed in Kutch on February 1. VHP supporters had tried to block entry of the actor to Mandavi early this week and had later took out a rally in district headquarters Bhuj two days ago when shooting was going at nearby Khari river.
“We are protesting against Shahrukh Khan as he is indulging in making statements on issues like intolerance. If there was intolerance in India, a person like him could never have become a popular actor that he is today. He should refrain from making such baseless statements as he has crores of followers and such statements give bad name to the country. By our protests, we are teaching him what is intolerance,” Jadeja said.
