Delhi: Better air quality than last time this yr ||||
 Scientists at SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research) have reportedly claimed that Delhi has been witnessing better air quality in the past few days, when compared to pollution levels the same time last year. Meanwhile, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) scientists have claimed the drop in particulate matter to be a possible result of weather conditions. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/65287062-0015-0012-2454-000012345678||||
Delhi is witnessing relatively better air quality in the last few days, compared to this time last year, possibly due to weather factors, scientists said. The levels of particulate matter have, for the first time, seen a downward trend, observed System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).
“The levels of PM 2.5 started falling steadily, from 210 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) on December 8 to 130 µg/m3 on December 15. The average value of PM 10 has shown a fall from 351 to 210 µg/m3 during the same period. Scientists are working to understand the cause,” said Dr Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.
He said over the next two days, the capital would continue to witness an average value of around 130-140 µg/m3. “This trend is persisting for a week now under adverse weather conditions when pollution is likely to go up. Although overall, Delhi is still in very poor category as per national AQI (air quality index) scale, in some places like Lodhi Road, it has fallen to moderate level, which is remarkable for this kind of season.”
On Wednesday morning, according to the AQI, particulates remained the prominent pollutant in eight out of 10 stations. At Anand Vihar, which usually witnesses the highest particulates, air quality remained in the “severe” category with the prominent pollutant PM 10 at an average of 455. According to the AQI, the severe range of 401-500 “affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases”. In the poor range, the air causes “breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure”.
At Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s air quality lab, scientists attributed this apparent drop in particulates entirely to weather conditions.
“The air quality of Delhi is mostly dependent on meteorological factors. The emission in any urban area remains largely the same over such a short period. At the most there may be a variation of 5 to 10 per cent,” said Dr Dipankar Saha, head of CPCB’s air quality lab.
High wind speeds and a relatively high boundary layer — a protective layer in the atmosphere which traps pollutants — could be the reasons for the apparent dip in particulates, in most stations, according to scientists. “If this layer comes down, pollutants are trapped over a thinner layer so their concentration is more. Since this layer has not reduced thanks to the relatively warmer temperature, the pollutants have been dispersed over a wider layer,” explained a senior CPCB scientist.
Dr Saha said the higher boundary layer, and high wind speeds over the last few days had influenced the air quality.
SAFAR scientists, however, felt the dip could be due to more reasons than just the weather conditions. “Colder temperatures normally tend to increase PM levels if wind are calm. In Delhi, from December 10, the temperature is falling, which (should) elevate the PM levels, but, interestingly, a drop has been recorded,” said Dr Beig.
But he added that a direct comparison with 2014 was not fair because a mild shower was observed on December 14-15 last year. Dr Beig also said that gaseous pollutants like carbon monoxide, which usually go up when the boundary levels come up, have witnessed a spike.
