Portfolios allocated to new Maharashtra ministers ||||
 Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday allocated portfolios to the 10 newly sworn-in ministers in the state Council and reshuffled certain portfolios of the existing members. Among others, BJP's Chandrakant Patil was given the Revenue Department, earlier held by Eknath Khadse who resigned from the Council last month over corruption charges. Previously, Patil held the cooperation portfolio. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/b41271a8-2862-46a1-90d0-c6cccbe6f318-1||||
Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday allocated portfolios to newly sworn-in ministers and reshuffled certain portfolios.
Chandrakant Patil (BJP), who earlier held cooperation portfolio, has now been given the revenue and rehabilitation departments, held earlier by Eknath Khadse (who resigned over corruption charges).
Girish Mahajan (BJP), in addition to his water resources portfolio, also got the charge of medical education, which was earlier with the education and cultural affairs minister Vinod Tawde.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
Pandurang Fundkar, newly sworn-in cabinet minister and a veteran BJP leader, got agriculture and horticulture portfolios.
Ram Shinde (BJP), elevated as cabinet minister now, will hold water conservation and protocol departments. Jaikumar Raval (BJP), newly sworn in, was given employment guarantee scheme department and tourism.
Subhash Deshmukh (BJP), another new face, got cooperation, marketing and textile portfolios. Mahadev Jankar, leader of BJP’s ally RSP, will hold animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries.
Sambhaji Nilangekar (BJP) got labour, earthquake rehabilitation and skill development portfolios. Sanjay Rathod (BJP) would now be minister of state for revenue. Dada Bhuse would now be MoS, rural development.
Deepak Kesarkar (Shiv Sena) would now be MoS Home (rural).Raje Atram who was earlier MoS forest would now be MoS tribal development.
Gulabrao Patil (Shiv Sena), newly inducted, would be MoS cooperation. Arjun Khotkar, another newly inducted Shiv Sena leader, would be MoS for textile, animal husbandry, dairy development, and fisheries.
Madan Yerawar (BJP) who was also newly sworn in would be MoS for energry, tourism, food and drugs administration and GAD.
Sadabhau Khot, leader of the BJP ally Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna, would be MoS for agriculture, horticulture and marketing.
