Haryana notifies backward classes quota Act ||||
 The Haryana government has notified the Haryana Backward Classes (Reservation in Services and Admission in Educational Institutions) Act, 2016. The backward classes in the state will now receive reservation in services and educational institutions under the Act. Meanwhile, various Jat organisations have threatened to launch a country-wide agitation demanding reservation from June 5. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/fa55573f-40b9-47cd-a1be-b8100159d6ca-1||||
As various Jat organisations have again threatened to launch a country wide protest demanding reservation from June 5, the Haryana government Friday notified the Haryana Backward Classes (Reservation in Services and Admission in Educational Institutions) Act, 2016. Through the Act, the government shall now provide reservation in services and admission in educational institutions to persons belonging to backward classes in the State.
The Act provides 10 per cent reservation in service for Class III and IV posts and six per cent reservation in Class I and II posts to the Jat, Jat Sikhs, Ror, Bishnoi, Tyagi, Mulla Jat or Muslim Jat in Schedule III. It will also give 10 per cent reservation for admissions to educational institutions to people belonging to these castes.
As per the notification, 16 per cent reservation has also been provided for Class III and IV posts and 11 per cent in Class I and II posts in schedule I to the people belonging to Backward Classes “A” category. These people would also get 16 per cent reservation in admissions in educational institutions.
The Act would also provide 11 per cent reservation for Class III and IV posts and six per cent in Class I and II posts in Schedule II to the people belonging to Backward Classes “B” category. Those belonging to BC-B category would also be entitled for 11 per cent reservation for admission in educational institutions.
A total of 71 castes fall in the list of BC-A category of Schedule I whereas six castes have been included in the list of BC-B category in Schedule II.
The notification states that notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the State Government may provide for horizontal reservation for such category or categories of persons within Backward Classes, as it may deem necessary from time to time.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
