Stop creating divide: 15-yr-old girl to Saeed ||||
 Jhanvi Behal, the 15-year-old girl who had earlier challenged JNUSU President Kanhaiya Kumar to a debate on freedom of speech, has asked Jamaat-ud-Dawa chief Hafiz Saeed to stop creating a divide among Kashmiris. Daring separatists and Pakistanis to stop her, she said she would hoist the tricolour on Independence Day in Srinagar, "a place where the national flag was insulted". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ce7acf3d-0386-4a26-84b6-44171a9ce885-1||||
Jhanvi Behal, the 15-year-old girl from Ludhiana, who made it to the headlines after challenging JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar to a debate on freedom of speech and expression, has now said she would hoist the tricolour at Lal Chowk in Srinagar on the occasion of Independence Day.
“I had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to allow all his MPs to hoist the national flag in their respective constituencies. He accepted my request and I am happy about that. Only a ‘best’ Prime Minister like him could have done that,” Bahal told ANI.
“I would hoist the tricolour at Lal Chowk in Srinagar on August 15 because that is a place where the national flag was insulted. I challenge all those, including the separatists and the Pakistanis, to stop me if they can,” she added.
The 15-year-old girl also used the opportunity to openly challenge Jamaat-ud-Dawa and Lashkar-e-Taiba leader Hafiz Saeed, saying that he must stop creating fear and divide among Kashmiris.
“I ask you (Saeed) to stop creating divide among Kashmiris, otherwise crores of other nationalists like me would stand against you,” she said.
Jhanvi, a student of DAV Public School, Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, Ludhiana, is an active member of an NGO Raksha Jyoti Foundation and was honoured on Republic Day for her contribution in many projects including Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.
READ: 15-year-old Jhanvi Behal challenges Kanhaiya Kumar for open debate on PM Modi
In the past, in an open challenge, the 15-year-old challenged JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar to meet her ‘wherever and whenever’ for the debate. “It is very easy to criticise someone while sitting at home. Kanhaiya should concentrate on working like PM Modi,” Jhanvi had said.
WATCH VIDEO
“Whatever Kanhaiya ji said against PM Modi is completely wrong and unacceptable. It would have been better if he had spoken against those ‘Deshdrohis’ who raised anti-national slogans rather than PM Modi,” Jhanvi had told ANI.
Jhanvi has raised several public issues in the past. Recently, she had filed a writ in the Punjab and Haryana high court against adult movies and porn content on the social networking sites.
