BJP supports 80% reservation for Bihar locals ||||
 BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi on Monday supported demand for 80% reservation of seats for the locals in state jobs and admission in state-run professional colleges. Slamming the Bihar government, Modi added, "It seems both Nitish Kumar and Lalu Prasad are more interested in making statements in this regard for political grounds but not doing anything concrete on the ground." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2678cef8-b34f-4a84-8e7d-89b69ce37163-1||||
Opposition BJP on Monday supported demand for reservation of 80 per cent of seats to Bihar natives in state jobs and admission in state-run professional colleges, while hitting out at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and RJD chief Lalu Prasad for only making “statements” for political gain.
“BJP is in favour of reservation of 80 per cent of seats in professional institutions and state jobs as mooted by RJD President Lalu Prasad and in principle supported by CM Nitish Kumar,” senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi told reporters, in his Legislative Council chamber, “But, it seems both Nitish Kumar and Lalu Prasad are more interested in making statements in this regard for political grounds but not doing anything concrete on the ground.”
BJP state President and MLC Mangal Pandey and Rajneesh Kumar on Monday raised the issue in the Legislative Council. In reply to a question that the CM has asked the Centre to intervene on the issue of domicialry allegedly erupting in different parts of the country, Modi, leader of opposition in the state’s Upper House, said, “The Centre has no role in such issues.”
Referring to Lalu Prasad’s allegations that outside candidates were getting selected in interviews for the post of Assistant Professor conducted by Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) due to lack of domiciliary policy, the BJP leader said the state government was to blame for this.
“Despite clear cut guidelines from the Centre that candidates having done PhD before 2009 are eligible for interview for the post of Assistant Professor, the Nitish Kumar government has not put it into practice,” he said.
State Education minister Ashok Choudhary had in fact assured the Legislative Council that PhDs completed before 2009 would be recognised in BPSC exam in the Budget session early this year, but still it had not come into practise and BPSC was carrying interviews in which 80 per cent of successful candidates were outsiders, he said.
“More than 34,000 students of Bihar have their PhD before 2009 who are at loss because of Bihar government’s apathy,” he alleged.
“Moreover, Lalu Prasad, who is now demanding 80 per cent reservation for Biharis had got students who have done their PhD before 2009 seeking his intervention, chased away from his house recently,” Modi alleged.
The former deputy chief minister asked the state government to stop the ongoing BPSC interview and follow the guideline recognising candidates who have done their PhDs before 2009.
