BJP MPs demand President's Rule in Bihar ||||
 BJP MPs on Monday demanded in the Lok Sabha that President's Rule be imposed in Bihar, alleging that crime has increased since the JD(U)-RJD-Congress alliance was elected. "Democracy is in danger. Six crore people are insecure," the MPs said. The MPs also cited several cases linked to alliance's legislators including the recent killing of a youth in a road-rage incident. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/08248da8-e610-497d-8823-98a5f4cef6a0-1||||
Citing the alleged rise in crime and political murders in Bihar since the Grand Alliance of JD(U), RJD and Congress came to power, BJP members in Lok Sabha Monday demanded the imposition of President’s Rule in the state. The demand came after a Class XII student was murdered in Gaya Saturday, allegedly by the son of JD(U) MLC.
The issue was raised by Janardan Singh Sigriwal and Ashwini Kumar Choubey of BJP and Rajesh Ranjan, who was elected on an RJD ticket but has been expelled from the party.
Sigriwal spoke of a number of criminal incidents where those associated to the ruling alliance in Bihar were allegedly involved.
He said an RJD MLA was in jail for allegedly raping a girl, while a JD(U) MLA had allegedly molested a woman on a train in front of her husband. He went on to say that a Congress legislator was accused of creating ruckus in an inebriated state at a police station, while an RJD office-bearer and his son had allegedly gunned down two people at Bahadurpur village in Saran district.
Choubey claimed that next to his house in Sultanganj, dacoits had raided a house and tried to rape the daughter of a BJP worker. At this point, an altercation broke out between him and Jaiprakash Narain Yadav of RJD and JD(U)’s Kaushalendra Kumar. At one stage, Choubey was heard asking Yadav to reveal the name of the dacoit involved in the crime. “Bihar has come under goonda-raj, jungle-raj,” Choubey shouted, backed by other BJP members from Bihar.
Ranjan said an eight-year-old boy had been kidnapped and his body thrown into his house the next day in Nalanda, home-district of the Bihar Chief Minister. “One man is dreaming of becoming the prime minister and another (was dreaming) of becoming the chief minister. Nobody in India is worried about Bihar. Democracy is in danger. Six crore people are insecure. The Bihar government should be dismissed,” Ranjan said.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
