Go to the gym: Katrina on dealing with breakups ||||
 Actress Katrina Kaif has said that her way of dealing with a breakup is to go to the gym. "[D]o some crunches. Thats how you deal with it," said Katrina. The actress has flaunted her abs in the song 'Kala Chashma' from the film 'Baar Baar Dekho'. Earlier, Katrina was reportedly dating actor Ranbir Kapoor but they broke up. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/19438d80-5c49-4eec-99c5-d4620f4f7216-1||||
It’s interesting to see how Katrina Kaif’s upcoming movie, Baar Baar Dekho has a song that perfectly rhymes with her real life situation. The song’s opening lines are ‘Aankhon ko Teri aadat hai, tu na dikhe toh shikayat hai’ and we couldn’t help but wonder how Katrina may have felt the same way about a certain actor till last year. We also wondered how she would deal with a situation when someone who is the apple of her eye and who has become a habit in her life suddenly walks out.
And Katrina had the perfect answer that perhaps helped her deal with a similar situation in life recently when the apple of her eye, yes we mean alleged beau Ranbir Kapoor, reportedly walked out. “Go to the gym and do some crunches. That’s how you deal with it,” Katrina told us.
Now that exactly is the secret behind her new smashing physical avatar. Katrina has never looked this sizzling and if the new trailer and song of Baar Baar Dekho are anything to go by, we are sure her washboard abs and gym toned beach body will soon be the talk of the town. The actress looks hot and how! For those who have missed seeing the svelte and stunning avatar of Katrina, Baar Baar Dekho will just be the whiff of fresh air. Right from sizzling in a bikini to kissing co-star Sidharth Malhotra with gay abandon, Katrina has shed all the excess baggage that perhaps kept her bottled in a cocoon all these years. Not to forget, there is also a teasing towel sequence thrown in the trailer.
Read: Katrina Kaif’s abs in Baar Baar Dekho song are weapons of mass distraction
The trailer looks to be a solid mix of sizzle and acting performances. One can see an ageing Sidharth as he time travels to reach his own senior self in future. The concept looks interesting though the mystery would be to see if the actor indeed time travels or if it is just a part of his dream. Nonetheless, the one person who is looking like a dream in the trailer is Katrina Kaif.
Watch: Katrina Kaif in Baar Baar Dekho’s Kala Chashma
Nonetheless, the one person who is looking like a dream in the trailer is Katrina Kaif.
