Salman's comment unfortunate, insensitive: Aamir ||||
 Actor Aamir Khan on Monday called Salman Khans 'raped woman' remark "unfortunate and insensitive". However, he added, I wasnt present when he made the comment". He further said that he is yet to speak to Salman over the issue. Responding to a query on whether he had any advice for Salman, Aamir said, "Who am I to advise?" ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3d3eeb74-3441-49a2-bb39-40695029d5eb-1||||
Aamir Khan known for his frank and forthcoming views today openly expressed that his friend Salman Khan’s comment comparing himself to a ‘raped women’ was an unfortunate and insensitive one. Salman made the comment during Sultan’s promotions.
WATCH: Salman Khan’s ‘Raped Woman’ Comment Was Unfortunate, Insensitive: Aamir Khan
 
At the poster launch of Dangal, when Aamir was asked what he felt about Salman’s raped remark that has currently kicked up a national furore, Aamir said, “I wasn’t present when he made the comment. I feel going purely by the media reports that I have been reading which quotes him as saying it(raped woman remark), I feel what he said was rather unfortunate and insensitive.”
Aamir also said that he is yet to speak to Salman on the issue. When asked if he would like give any advice to Salman, Aamir remarked, “Who am I to advise?”
However, it was same platform from where the 51-year-old actor shared his words of appreciation for the Dabangg actor’s upcoming movie Sultan.
“There’s wrestling which is common, nothing else. But I loved the look of ‘Sultan.’ It looks like an excellent film. I hope it does really well,” said Mr. Perfectionist.
According to Aamir, though the genre of Sultan and Dangal are same, the story-line of both the movies are completely different.
While talking to media in June about the wrestling shots in Sultan, Salman had said he had to pick up a man weighing 120 kg almost 10 times for five different camera angles. According to the actor, this routine went on for six to seven hours. “It is like the most difficult thing,” he said. Salman, explaining what it was like when he walked out of the ring after the hectic shoot schedule, said, “When I used to walk out of that ring, it used to be actually like a raped woman walking out.”
Realising that he shouldn’t have made a comparison to a rape victim, Salman added, “I don’t think I should have.”
National Commission for Women demanded Salman’s apology for the comment even though Bollywood largely refrained from castigating him. Salman’s father Salim Khan apologised on his behalf.
