HC verdict was not anybodys victory: Delhi L-G ||||
 After Delhi High Court gave its judgement on the functioning of the national capital in favour of Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung, he said on Thursday the verdict was not anybodys victory. Calling it a matter of 'constitutional validity', Jung added, "Of course we report to the Central Government but it is wrong to say we work against the Delhi government." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0ecfad0e-d87b-4be9-8a39-e564f79316a4-1||||
Lt Governor Najeeb Jung on Thursday addressed the media after Delhi High Court ruled in his favour on the issue of control of the city.
Jung said the verdict was not anybody’s victory. “It’s about constitutional validity,” he said. Talking about AAP’s allegation that LG’s office has been trying to create obstacles in the working of Delhi government, Jung said: “Of course we report to the Central Government but it is wrong to say we work against the Delhi government.”
“We did not go to the court, they went. We just read out the constitution in court,” Jung said as reported by news agency ANI.
The bench, comprising Chief justice G Rohini and Justice Jayant Nath ruled that decisions taken by the Delhi government without consulting the LG were illegal.
The court said on reading of article 239 AA and the NCT Act, Delhi continues to be a union territory. The court said article 239 AA continues to be in effect and that the contention of the Delhi government is without substance and cannot be accepted.
The counsel for the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government said they will immediately file an appeal in the Supreme Court against the verdict of the High Court which ruled that L-G Najeeb Jung would remain the administrative head of the National Capital Territory. The court had dismissed the Delhi government’s contention that the L-G is bound to act on the advice of the council of ministers.
READ: Arvind Kejriwal says he will move Supreme Court after Delhi High Court disappointment
The May 21, 2015, notification of Centre barring ACB from proceeding against central government employees is neither illegal nor unsustainable, the HC bench had added.
