Oscars have bigger controversies: Anil Kapoor ||||
 In defense of the controversies regarding award shows in Bollywood, actor Anil Kapoor on Thursday said that even the Oscars are surrounded by controversies, which are sometimes even bigger. Referring to the all-white nominations row, Kapoor added, "Certain sections feel that they have... not been that diverse in their choice of nominations. These things keep happening, lobbying also takes place. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/59777185-0008-0002-9933-000012345678||||
Actor Anil Kapoor has defended the controversies that surround award shows in Bollywood, saying even the Oscars have its share of controversies, which are sometimes even bigger.
“As they say, the grass is always greener (on the other side). Because you are here (Indian film industry), you don’t know what’s happening there (internationally). So the kind of controversies that happen here, sometimes the controversies there are more than that,” Kapoor said on Thursday at a press conference to announce the Zee Cine Awards, where he will be performing.
“And this year too, at the Oscars, there have been big controversies, certain sections feel that they have not been fair, that it’s not been that diverse in their choice of nominations. These things keep happening, lobbying also takes place,” the “24” actor said.
There has been a controversy with the all-white nominations at the Oscars this year with numerous artistes voicing their opinions on the issue.
Kapoor, who was a part of Oscar-winning film “Slumdog Millionaire”, recently won the Filmfare Best Supporting Actor for his performance in “Dil Dhadakne Do”.
“Ultimately, you can see that this year I have received an award but it’s after so many years and that doesn’t mean that I didn’t want to get awards. So somewhere it is genuine that I didn’t get the award. My work in all films is good, tell me in which film I didn’t do good work.”
“All big stars do good work every year, but we don’t get awards every year, so somewhere there is a certain integrity in the awards. And you are not in America or Los Angeles, and even there all kinds of controversies happen. The ones who win feel it is genuine and the ones who don’t win find something fishy,” the actor said.
The Zee Cine Awards ceremony, to be held on February 20, will be hosted by Shahid Kapoor and Karan Johar.
