Don't judge Mohenjo Daro from trailer: Gowariker ||||
 Filmmaker Ashutosh Gowariker has requested people to only form their opinions about the Hrithik Roshan and Pooja Hegde starrer 'Mohenjo Daro' after watching the film and not judge it based on its trailer. He added, "We have our own image or response to a trailer... There are certain elements that shock you but you have to be patient." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/e00a9457-2602-4844-95bb-20e3f13eeb8c-1||||
Acclaimed filmmaker Ashutosh Gowariker is not perturbed over flak from audience on trailer of his upcoming film Mohenjo Daro and says one needs to be open to criticism.
The 52-year-old “Lagaan” Director counselled movie-goers to be patient and form opinion after seeing the film.
Asked how does he deal with criticism over the trailer when everything is proper – from script to casting – Ashutosh says, “We are open to that. When Amitji (Amitabh Bachchan) was in good career phase a film named “Alaap” came and the poster had Amitji’s face that seemed poetic. I did not go for it as I was enjoying watching him in ‘Don’, ‘Trishul’.
WATCH VIDEO: Hrithik Roshan On Kangana Ranaut Spat: Truth Is On My Side, Don’t Need Support From Bollywood
 
“We have our own image or response to a trailer. In a trailer you try to depict a story. There are certain elements that shock you but you have to be patient and form your opinion after seeing the film. I think ‘Alaap’ was a superb film and Amitji was great,” he added.
The trailer of Hrithik Roshan-starrer “Mohenjo Daro” invited criticism with fans questioning the depiction of historical times through VFX technology.
The epic adventure-romance film, written and directed by Ashutosh, features Hrithik and Pooja Hegde in the lead roles.
WATCH VIDEO: What Ashutosh Gowarikar Has To Say About Mohenjo Daro’s Clash With Akshay Kumar’s Rustom
 
Reportedly, the film is set in 2016 BC in the ancient city of Mohenjo-daro in the era of the Indus Valley civilisation. The film is about a man who falls in love with his enemy’s daughter, who is a dancer.
The film, produced by Siddharth Roy Kapur and Sunita Gowariker, releases on August 12.
