Good people feeling suffocated in BJP: Kejriwal ||||
 Following Navjot Singh Sidhus resignation from the Rajya Sabha, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that good people are feeling suffocated within the BJP. Kejriwal tweeted, "Honest n gud people are feeling extremely suffocated within BJP due to dictatorial attitude of its top leadership (sic)." Meanwhile, Punjab BJP chief has said that Sidhu has not quit the party yet. ||||
 ANI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/f5ad2b67-0214-47b2-bfa9-a2dc572a1dfd-1||||
New Delhi, July 19 (ANI): Taking a fresh shot at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over former cricketer-turned politician Navjot Singh Sidhu resigning from the Rajya Sabha, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday asserted that honest and good people are feeling extremely suffocated within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) courtesy the dictatorial attitude of its top leadership
"Honest n gud people are feeling extremely suffocated within BJP due to dictatorial attitude of its top leadership," Kejriwal tweeted.
Sidhu, who yesterday resigned from the Rajya Sabha, said that his nomination in the Upper House was a mere burden, adding that the purpose behind it stood defeated now.
"With the closure of every window leading to Punjab, the purpose stands defeated. It is now a mere burden, I prefer not to carry it. In the war of right or wrong, you cannot afford to be neutral rather than being self-centred. Punjab's interest is paramount," he said in a statement.
Signalling major developments ahead of the Punjab Assembly polls, Sidhu yesterday tendered his resignation from the Upper House.
According to reports, Sidhu might join the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Punjab. The former cricketer, who was thrice the Lok Sabha member from the BJP, was asked to step away from contesting the polls in Amritsar during the 2014 general election to make way for fellow member Arun Jaitley.
Meanwhile, Sidhu's wife Navjot Kaur has clarified that she still remains with the BJP.
"I have not resigned from BJP", she told ANI.
"It's understood that he has resigned. When he has resigned from Rajya Sabha, it only has one meaning that he has resigned from BJP as well. He has clear vision he wants to serve Punjab, he wasn't ready for any other option besides Punjab," she said when asked about Sidhu. (ANI)
