Mohenjo Daro has not been plagiarised: Bombay HC ||||
 The Bombay High Court has ruled that the Hrithik Roshan and Pooja Hegde starrer 'Mohenjo Daro' has not been plagiarised. Justice GS Patel dismissed the petition against the film's release and imposed a fine of 1.5 lakh against Akashaditya Lama, who had accused director Ashutosh Gowariker of stealing his script for the film. 'Mohenjo Daro' will release on August 12. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/5e7de9a7-8217-44d2-a5f5-9e1f5925e47e-1||||
The Bombay High Court’s ruling that Hrithik Roshan, Pooja Hegde’s Mohenjo Daro is not plagiarised has come as a big relief for director Ashutosh Gowariker. This ends months of allegations by Akashaditya Lama who filed a petition saying the movie’s script was stolen by Gowariker. Justice GS Patel dismissed the injunction plea against Mohenjo Daro’s release while imposing a fine of Rs 1.5 lakh against Lama.
The court also said that Lama had filed the complaint to “harass” Ashutosh Gowariker, UTV and Hrithik Roshan. Justice Patel also said it has become a practice to approach the courts close to a film’s release to harass and blackmail filmmakers.
Read| Mohenjo Daro: Things you should know before watching the Ashutosh Gowariker movie 
Lama had moved the court in July, demanding a stay on the release of the period film. He claimed that he had narrated the story of Mohenjo Daro in 2001 to Jaswinder Ballu Saluja, an editor who has worked with Gowariker in Lagaan and Swades. After that he didn’t hear anything and relaised his story has been plagiarised after he heard of Mohenjo Daro. He said he tried to contact Gowariker but to no avail. He alleged he had approached the court as the last resort.
WATCH: Hrithik Roshan & Pooja Hegde In An Exclusive Interview With Indian Express
 
Gowariker’s spokesperson told Firstpost, “Ashutosh had faith in the legal system and rather than talking about this, he has been engrossed in promoting the film and I’m sure that that is what he will continue to do. Everyone is fully geared up for August 12 and also the Locarno International Film Festival.”
The fine amount will be donated to Naam Foundation, an organisation founded by Nana Patekar and Makarand Anaspure that works for Maharashtra’s drought-hit farmers.
