Bihar govt relaxes toilet rule for local polls ||||
 The Bihar government on Tuesday relaxed the rule that makes toilets a mandatory requirement at the homes of candidates contesting in local body polls. This comes ahead of local body polls in Bihar next month. BJP leader Sushil Modi, who proposed the waiver, blamed the state government for not building toilets in at least 1.5 crore households across Bihar. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/26118852-0015-0002-9521-000012345678||||
In a decision that is seen by many as driven by “political considerations”, Bihar Cabinet on Tuesday withdrew an all-important clause that makes it mandatory for panchayat poll contestants to have toilets at home to be eligible. The clause was inserted last August through an amendment to Bihar Panchayati Raj Act 2006.
Though panchayat polls are not contested on party lines, political parties look at it as an important opportunity to broadbase their support at the grassroots levels. Most village heads (mukhiyas and sarpanchs) have indirect political affiliations and play an important role in influencing voters.
Political observers said with the RJD now the single largest party with 80 seats, there is bound to be a fierce competition between the RJD and its alliance partner JD (U) —which has 71 seats — for their respective space at the base level of politics.
Also, sources said with the rotational system of reservation of panchayats being in place in February-March panchayat polls 2016, the state government reportedly did not want to push “no toilet, no poll contest” norms to escape displeasure of several hopefuls, who have failed to construct toilets. But the state cabinet that did not explain the reasons for doing away with the clause.
Bihar Cabinet principal secretary Brijesh Mehrotra simply said, “The state cabinet has taken an important decision to drop ‘no toilet at home, no panchayat poll’ norm.”
However, a senior Panchayati Raj department official said, “Continuing with the clause could have made the government unpopular, as several people close to the ruling coalition could have been deprived from contesting the panchayat polls.”
There are more than 8,200 positions of mukhiyas and sarpanchas, besides thousands of positions of ward members and panchayat sachivs in the three-tier Panchayati Raj systen. The government has reserved 50 per cent seats for women. But this time all reserved panchayats will be de-reserved, paving the way for rotational reservation.
In August 2015, the state government had made the toilet provision mandatory in the existing Act to encourage construction of toilets in every household. The state government had also announced that it would give Rs 8,000 besides the Central fund of Rs 4,000 per BPL family to construct a toilet.
