Lalu writes to Modi over scrapping of OBC quota ||||
 RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav on Friday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the scrapping of reservation for OBC candidates for the posts of professors and associate professors. It is a well-known fact that there has been an organised attempt to deprive people of reservation, Yadav wrote. He also threatened to start a movement against the decision. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/8fda41f5-67b3-422d-9c64-7194739363e0-1||||
RJD Supremo Lalu Prasad has shot a letter to PM Narendra Modi over UGC scrapping of reservation for Other Backward Class candidates for post of professors and associate professors. In his letter Lalu has alleged that Modi govt was flouting rules and regulations to deny OBC candidates what was their right. RJD Chief has demanded PM Modi to personally look into the matter and get a complete report from the HRD Ministry over the decision to scrap reservations to OBC candidates. Lalu  demanded that PM should break his silence over the UGC's decision and  make his stand clear over the controversial decision.
LALU ATTACKS PM MODI
Through his letter to the PM, Lalu attacked PM Modi and demanded that the Centre should release figures of number of professors and associate professors from SC/ST and OBC category who are presently posted in all the Central Universities across the country. Lalu said that the Central govt should state facts whether number of such professors and associate professors in Central Universities is in proportion to the present reservation granted to them.
STOPPING FELLOWSHIPS OF OBC'S
Citing the example of fellowship being discontinued recently, for Scheduled Caste students due to dearth of funds, Lalu questioned PM as to why reservations meant OBCs, SC/ST and Dalits were being discontinued in a phased manner. Lalu attacked PM asserting that on one hand the central govt was stopping fellowships to poor and backwards students and on the other hands top industrialists were looting the country of thousands of croeres and  running away abroad ( read Vijay Mallya).
Lalu said that it was becoming very clear that Centre was following the diktats from  RSS and scrapping reservations to poor, Dalits, SC/ST and OBCs. Lalu said that the idea of scrapping reservation policy from the country was made clear by RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat during Bihar elections and Centre was now following RSS's intent.
RESERVATION CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT
Lalu maintained that reservation was a constitutional right and not a poverty eradication program and he threatened to start a movement soon against the Centre's move of scrapping reservation.     
It may be noted that after the UGC scrapped OBC quota from professor and associate professor post, 27 per cent OBC reservation in teaching positions will be applicable for the level of Assistant Professor only.
