Oppn walks out over BJP MP's "derogatory" remark ||||
 Opposition staged a walk out on Friday even as Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge claimed that Virendra Singh, the BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh who allegedly made "derogatory " remarks against Congress was supported by the government. Demanding an unconditional apology or Singh's suspension, Kharge added that even the speaker who reportedly expunged the remarks agrees that Singh was wrong. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/07607753-0008-0012-1756-000012345678||||
The unapologetic stance of the BJP MP who made “derogatory” remarks against the Congress leadership prompted opposition MPs to stage a walkout, demanding an unconditional apology or suspension of the MP.
Pointing out that Virendra Singh, the BJP MP from Bhadohi, Uttar Pradesh, repeated his remarks in an interview that appeared in The Indian Express Friday, leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge alleged that he was supported by the government.
“The extremely objectionable, derogatory and defamatory language used by Shri Virendra Singh (Bhadohi) imputed direct and personal insults to the entire Parliamentary system, our democracy and our former prime ministers. Both the Speaker and ministers from the government agreed that he was wrong. Not only did he not apologise, he went on giving interviews confirming what he said,” Kharge said.
When Speaker Sumitra Mahajan pointed out the matter had already been raised Thursday, Kharge said the absence of an apology meant that he was in fact being supported by the government. “He should tender an apology or you should suspend him,” he said. The Speaker had expunged Singh’s remarks from the Lok Sabha records.
Congress MPs had stormed the well when the Speaker did not allow Kharge to raise the matter before question hour and began raising slogans and displayed placards. However, the Speaker carried on with the business of the House.
When the House met in the morning, Kharge was seen showing the interview in the newspaper to Sonia Gandhi, deputy speaker Thambi Durai and other Congress leaders. The Congress then staged a walkout along with members of the RJD and JD(U). TMC, too, followed the Congress.
