Police constable shoots two kabaddi players ||||
 A police constable opened fire at two kabaddi players, Lakhwinder Singh and Varinder Singh, in Moga, Punjab, on Tuesday, following a personal feud. The players, who received three bullets each, are now out of danger. While Lakhwinder has played for the Punjab Thunder team in the World Kabaddi League last year, Varinder has played in several national tournaments. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/62bbf938-5b5e-4f00-a15c-f255c8a9ba71-1||||
A police constable fired six shots at two kabaddi players in Moga Tuesday night, leaving them seriously injured. Police have filed an FIR against the absconding constable, Paramdeep Singh, for attempt to murder.
According to the two kabaddi players — Lakhwinder Singh (22) and Varinder Singh (23) — they were friends with Paramdeep for the past two years.
“He used to play kabaddi earlier and we met at tournaments. Recently, he developed an illicit relationship with my sister-in-law. I had objected to it and politely spoke to him about it several times. My sister-in-law lives in Canada, and Paramdeep wanted to settle with her abroad. Wednesday, I and Varinder left for Lande from village Dosanjh. On the way he intercepted our vehicle.
After that, all I heard was continuous firing,” said Lakhwinder, who along with Varinder has received three bullet injuries each.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
Varinder, who received bullet injuries in chest, accused Lakhwinder’s sister-in-law of offering Rs 20 lakh to the constable for “eliminating” them. “Paramdeep had earlier threatened us to implicate in a false drug smuggling case,” said Varinder.
“I have no idea if we would be able to play kabaddi matches again. I had plans to play in the league matches in Canada. Now with bullet injuries near spinal cord, I am only hoping for a miracle,” he added.
Doctors said that both the players are now out of danger.
While Lakhwinder has played for Punjab Thunder team in the World Kabaddi League last year, Varinder has played in several national tournaments.
Meanwhile, Moga SSP HS Pannu said the constable had used his private 0.32 bore revolver to attack the duo.
“It was his private weapon. Constables on duty are not generally given weapons by the department unless they are on escort guard duty,” said Pannu.
The SSP said an FIR under section 307 (Attempt to murder) and Arms Act has been  registered at Samalsar police station against the constable who is absconding.
