Salman's 'Sultan' leaked online: Reports ||||
 According to reports, the Salman Khan starrer 'Sultan', which released today, was leaked online a few hours before its official release. Many websites reportedly have been blocked for hosting the film since Tuesday evening. While a cyber crime expert has confirmed the leak, the film's producers have denied that they have any information about it. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ca2c5d44-6a6b-4ce0-a239-ae200f9c786c-1||||
Sultan is the most keenly-awaited movie of the year and trade is pegging Rs 150 crore as just the opening weekend collection for the Salman Khan film. However, piracy syndicates appear to have rained on producer Yash Raj Film’s parade and Sultan was leaked online a few hours before its official release on Wednesday. Sultan has been released on 5100 screens worldwide.
The news about Sultan comes a few weeks after Shahid Kapoor and Alia Bhatt movie Udta Punjab was leaked online. Reports also said that adult comedy Great Grand Masti has been leaked weeks before its release.
WATCH VIDEO: Salman Khan’s Sultan Gets Rave Audience Reviews
Sultan is not available on Torrent yet but can be found on darknet, according to reports.
Also read: Sultan movie review
Daily Mail quoted Deep Shankar, a cyber crime expert, as saying that the leak of the 2.36 hours-long film is confirmed. The report also says that many websites have been blocked for hosting Sultan since Tuesday evening and links are being removed immediately after uploads.
 
Also read: Sultan opening box office collections: Salman Khan, Anushka Sharma movie to be affected as Eid now on July 7
However, producers YRF have denied that they have any information about the leak. No police case has been filed either.
See Pics: Sultan Salman Khan Attends Screening With Rumoured Girlfriend Iulia Vantur, Katrina Kaif
The initial Sultan reviews have been optimistic and Bollywood celebs, who watched a preview on Tuesday, are raving about the movie. Sultan is expected to break Salman’s previous box office records. Bajrangi Bhaijaan was his recent biggest hit with over Rs 380 crore in ticket sales.
