Punjab: Akali womens wing seeks all-girls gyms ||||
 In a meeting in Punjab Bhawan on Thursday, the womens wing of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), called the Istri Akali Dal, made a demand for all-girls gyms in villages. Following this, SAD President and Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Badal reportedly assured to make arrangements to set up women-only gyms at places where there is a demand for the facility. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/452690b8-606e-409c-b015-fc1d6fe4da02-1||||
As SAD-BJP government showers SoPs and freebies ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls, the women’s wing of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday came up with its own demand — a women’s only gym across villages.
In a meeting with Shiromani Akali Dal President and Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Badal in Punjab Bhawan on Thursday, the Istri Akali Dal made demands of an all-girls gym in the villages. Istri Akali Dal chief Bibi Jagir Kaur told The Indian Express that following the demand, Sukhbir assured to make arrangements to set up women’s-only gyms at places where there is a demand for the facility.
Sukhbir made an array of other announcements during the meeting, aimed at wooing the women voters across the state.
The Istril Akali Dal office bearers were told by Sukhbir that the government would start an all-women train to Takht Hazoor Sahib and Takht Patna Sahib under the Mukh Mantri Tirath Darshan Yatra Scheme shortly. Besides, there are to be dedicated bus serives for women to visit the Golden Temple and Virasat-e-Khalsa in Anandpur Sahib.
Jagir Kaur said the government plans to start these buses in July. “As far as trains to Takht Hazoor Sahib and Patna Sahib are concerned, government plans to start these by September.”
“It would be a big opportunity for scores of women in villages who otherwise have not been able to visit these places,” said a leader of the wing.
Sukhbir also told the women’s wing that the state government would distribute four lakh sewing machines for women belonging to Mai Bhago Sewa Society besides initiating the process of recruiting 2,500 women constables in the Punjab police soon.
“We have been told that government is also planning to provide items like gas stoves and utensils which the Sewa Societies would be able to deliver to the needy persons across villages in the state,” said an office bearer of the wing who attended the meeting.Another leader who attended the meeting said that SAD president had asked the women leaders to monitor the implementation of the welfare schemes of the government and ensure that deserving people did get the benefits. Sukhbir also presided over the meetings of Youth Akali Dal and SC/BC wing and exhorted the cadre to start preparing for the 2017 Assembly polls.
Lambasting AAP and Congress, he said that the two parties were hell bent upon maligning the fair name of Punjab. He further said that “true picture with the aid of facts and figures of the rapid progress made by Punjab must be presented before the people so that they are not swayed by negative propagandas of the the Opposition.
 
