9 of 30 killed in Jat stir declared innocent ||||
 As many as nine of the 30 people who died in February's Jat agitation in Haryana have been declared innocent by the state government. A compensation of 10 lakh each has been given to the next of kin of these persons. Earlier, the Haryana government had said compensation would be given only when the innocence of the deceased was proven. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/9c4e3cd6-ff6b-4063-ad93-42c0cb2de6fc-1||||
EVEN AS reports of the inquiry committees — constituted to look into the violence that erupted during the Jat reservation agitation in February — are awaited, nine of the 30 people who died during the agitation have been declared innocent by the Haryana government. Compensation amount of Rs 10 lakh each has been given to the next of kin of these nine persons. The compensation amount was paid from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The reports of the Prakash Singh committee and a judicial committee are yet to be submitted.
Haryana Food and Supplies Minister Karan Dev Kamboj said the probe by the police and the administration had shown that the nine persons were innocent and that they had not been involved in the violence. “We have been saying that those who are guilty and involved in the violence will not be given compensation. Probe by different agencies found that the nine were innocent. The reports of the other committees will be considered once these are submitted,” said Kamboj.
A government official said that among the nine persons declared innocent, one was visiting relatives in Kaithal and belonged to Yamunanagar, while some others acted in self defence. The official added that if any proof emerges about the involvement of these persons in incidents of violence, action will be taken accordingly.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
When the demand for compensation to the kin of those who died was raised earlier, the Haryana government had said compensation would be given only when the innocence of the deceased was proven.
Among the nine whose families have been awarded compensation, four belonged to Rohtak: Ravinder, Manjeet, Nitin and Pardeep. Krishan Kumar and Shyam Lal were from Jhajjar. The others are Puran from Yamunanagar, Mintu Gujjar from Hisar and Ashok Kumar from Sonipat.
