Kerala opposes water level raise at Mullaperiyar ||||
 Kerala government on Wednesday clarified that it would oppose any proposal to raise the water level at the Mullaperiyar dam. Further steps shall be taken after due consultation with CM Pinarayi Vijayan, Kerala Water Resources Minister Mathew Thomas said. This comes after Tamil Nadu CM Jayalalithaa reportedly requested PM Narendra Modi to raise the water level to 152 feet. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/4269f3a2-e40e-43b9-a5eb-b9a75a11a33c-1||||
Thiruvananthapuram, Jun 15 (PTI) Kerala government today made it clear that the state would oppose any proposal to raise the water level of Mullaperiyar dam, a bone of contention between it and neighbouring Tamil Nadu.
State Minister for Water Resources Mathew T Thomas said further steps in this regard would be taken after consulting Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other officials concerned.
The minister's statement comes amid reports about Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa's request to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to raise the water level to 152 ft during her New Delhi visit, yesterday.
"There are media reports that Tamil Nadu chief minister submitted such a request before Prime Minister. There is no official communication in this regard so far. But, we will oppose any move to raise the reservoir's water level," Thomas told PTI.
There were also reports that Jayalalithaa had sought the Centre's support to implement the linking of inter-state rivers of Achankovil, Pampa and Vaipar.
Thomas said the linking of rivers was against the interest of Kerala and the government would raise strong objection against it also, if there was any such move.
"Kerala has always objected to the proposal to link rivers. We will continue to object it," the minister added.
Meanwhile, state Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the proposal to link inter-state rivers would "adversely" affect the state.
Most of the rivers of the state would become dry and the Kuttanadu and Upper Kuttanadu, areas known for the scenic backwaters, would be the worst affected.
Chennithala also wanted the Chief Minister to take up the matter with the Prime Minister.
