DRDO test-fires India-made artillery gun system ||||
 The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Thursday successfully test-fired the fully indigenous 155 mm x 52 calibre Advanced Towed Artillery Gun System. The armament system, expected to be ready for user trial by 2017, has a firing range of 40 km and features like high mobility, quick deployability, advanced communication system, automatic command, and night firing capability. ||||
 The Financial Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/da4fd73f-52a3-4ad3-8528-0762c96512a4-1||||
Giving the 'Make in India' initiative for the defence sector yet another boost, DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) today successfully conducted the proof firing of armament system for 155 mm x 52 calibre Advanced Towed Artillery Gun System (ATAGS).
ATAGS is fully indigenous towed artillery gun system project. The project is part of the artillery modernisation programme of the Indian Army. The first fully integrated gun system is likely to be ready for user (Indian Army) trials by the first half of 2017.
The gun will have a firing range of 40 kms and boasts of advanced features such as high mobility, quick deployability, auxiliary power mode, advanced communication system, automatic command and control system with night firing capability in direct fire mode.
The system comprises of a barrel, breech mechanism, muzzle brake and recoil mechanism to fire 155 mm calibre ammunitions by Indian Army. "This has a longer range, accuracy and precision and provides greater fire power," says a Ministry of Defence release.
The system is configured with an all electric drive aimed at ensuring maintenance free and reliable operation over a longer period of time.
Armament Research & Development Establishment (ARDE), Pune, a nodal laboratory of DRDO is behind the design & development of ATAGS, along with other DRDO laboratories.
DRDO aims to develop the artillery gun system with participation of private industry to meet the requirement of the Indian Army. The idea is to establish indigenous critical defence manufacturing technologies.
DRDO hopes to do this with the participation of Ordnance Factories, DPSUs and private industries including Bharat Forge, Tata Power Strategic Engineering Division and Mahindra Defence Naval System to meet the aspiration of Make in India initiative in defence sector, says the Ministry release.
