Jaitley invokes Emergency to hit back at Cong ||||
 At a Parliamentary debate on Friday to celebrate the Constitution, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley referred to Emergency and the suspension of Article 21 (Right to life and liberty) to hit back at the Congress for 'intolerance' protests. Jaitley recalled Hitler's usage of the constitution to subvert democracy while adding that suspension of Article 21 was "dictatorship at its worst". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/85939538-0004-0011-9971-000012345678||||
Facing an aggressive opposition attack over growing intolerance, the government Friday launched a fierce counter with Finance Minister Arun Jaitley initiating a debate in Rajya Sabha on commitment to the Constitution to mark the 125th birth anniversary of B R Ambedkar.
Deftly drawing a parallel between Adolf Hitler’s actions in Germany in the 1930s to the imposition of Emergency by Indira Gandhi in the 1970s, he said during the Emergency even the right to life and liberty was stripped and “dictatorship was at its worst”. Today, he said even an irresponsible statement on television is assumed as intolerance.
Watch Video: ‘Dictatorship was worst under Indira’s Hitler-like regime’
A day after Home Minister Rajnath Singh triggered a political controversy saying secularism is the most misused word, Jaitley argued that the constitutional thought that the State will have no religion and will not discriminate on the basis of religion have been subverted in the last 65 years. He said that uniform civil code and ban on cow slaughter was part of the Constitution and asked how the House would react if B R Ambedkar today stood up and proposed these provisions under Article 44 and Article 48.
“So if Ambedkar had proposed Article 44 and Article 48 today, how many of you would have accepted it… even as a Directive Principle?” he said. CPM’s Sitaram Yechury intervened and asked Jaitley not to pick and choose, arguing other directive principles — early childhood care and education too have not been implemented, prompting Jaitley to ask whether he was suggesting that because one provision has not been followed the other too should not be followed.
Jaitley harped on the Emergency to attack the Congress. “During the 1970s, one of the biggest challenges we faced was that Article 21 was suspended. And the government succeeded in convincing the Supreme Court that if Article 21 is suspended, because it was suspendable, the citizens of India have lost the right to life and liberty. This was dictatorship at its worst… If today someone comes on television and gives an irresponsible statement then we assume it as intolerance. That time, the situation was such that even if in an illegal way your life was snatched,” he said triggering protests from the Congress benches.
When a Congress member shouted out the two cannot be compared, Jaitley shot back “of course there is no comparison. The difference is between a mountain and a mole hill”. He said the argument then was that people can be jailed or killed without reason and people will have no remedy. “And those who now claim to swear by the Constitution supported this position,” he added. Not just that, he argued even Article 356 of the Constitution was “misused” several times during the Congress rule. “The misuse of Article 356 in India has gradually been faced out,” he said.
Jaitley referred to Hilter’s Germany as the most glaring example of usage of constitution and its provisions to subvert democracy. He did not refer to Emergency or Indira Gandhi’s 20 point programme during Emergency or Dev Kant Dev Kant Barooah’s famous declaration that India is Indira, Indira is India.
Instead, Jaitley narrated the sequence of events in Germany. He said Hitler, using the pretext of a threat to set ablaze the German Parliament imposed Emergency, detained the opposition to gain majority for amending the Constitution, imposed press censorship and came out with a 25-point economic programme. “And thereafter, you brought a law that no action taken by the government was justiciable in court… And then Rudolf Hess, the immediate adviser to Adolf Hitler, delivered a great speech on February 25, 1934, titled ‘The Oath to Adolf Hitler’… the speech ended with a sentence ‘Adolf Hitler is Germany, Germany is Adolf Hitler’,” he said.
“I am only referring to what happened in 1993… what happened subsequently in other parts of the world later, the Germans never claimed a copyright,” he added.
Jaitley, during his more than an hour-long speech, also argued dilution in separation of powers as envisaged in the Constitution was “coming” from the judiciary, noted Jan Sangh leader Syama Prasad Mookerjee was a member of the Constituent Assembly and he too had made a contribution along with the others to counter Congress’s criticism that the ruling party had no role in drafting of the Constitution. In the present times, he said, the “biggest challenge” to any Constitutional system in the world is terrorism and argued “sometimes for vote bank politics, we hold ourselves back from criticising the way we should. This is the result of the last 65 years.”
