Baahubali wins 7 awards at the 1st IIFA Utsavam ||||
 SS Rajamouli's 'Baahubali' on Sunday won seven awards at 'IIFA Utsavam', the first edition of the International Indian Film Academy Awards (IIFA) for the South Indian film industry. The awards for 'Baahubali', including 'Best Picture' and 'Best Director', were for the Tamil category. Meanwhile, Malayalam movie 'Ennu Ninte Moideen' won the 'Best Picture' award in the Malayalam category. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/12666027-0009-0001-8088-000012345678||||
Filmmaker S.S Rajamouli’s magnum opus “Baahubali” and Malayalam romantic drama “Ennu Ninte Moideen” bagged the best film awards at the first edition of IIFA Utsavam in Hyderabad.
The two-day event honoured the best talent across Tamil and Malayalam film industries late on Sunday (January 24).
Of the 12 award categories, Rajamouli’s “Baahubali”, a Tamil-Telugu bilingual, bagged six awards, including the Best Direction and Best Picture.
Also read: ‘Srimanthudu’, ‘Rangitaranga’ win laurels at IIFA Utsavam
The other awards the film pocketed include best Supporting Role Male for act or Sathyaraj and actress Ramya Krishnan got the same award in the female category.
“Baahubali” also won awards for best Playback Singer Male and Female for Haricharan Seshadri and Geetha Madhuri respectively.
#Baahubali wins 7 #IIFAUtsavam Tamil Awards! A big congratulations to the team, we couldn’t be any happier! #பாகுபலி pic.twitter.com/kte0izYi8O
— Baahubali (@BaahubaliMovie) January 25, 2016
Actor Jayam Ravi was awarded the best Leading Role Male for his performance in last year’s critically and commercially-acclaimed “Thani Oruvan”.
The best Leading Role Female award was won by Nayanthara for his flawless pe rformance in horror-thriller “Maya”.
For his impressive work in eliciting humour in horror-comedy Kanchana 2, actress Kovai Sarla won the best actor in a Comic Role award.
“Roja” fame Arvind Swamy bagged the best actor in a Negative Role for “Thani Oruvan”.
Young sensational composer Anirudh Ravichander won the award for best Music D irection for last year’s blockbuster “Kaththi”.
Actor Dhanush was awarded the best Lyricist for his work in his film “Maari” .
In the Malayalam film awards category, Prithiviraj-starrer romantic drama “Nenu Ente Moideen” bagged a total of five awards, including Best Picture.
Actor Prithiviraj Sukumaran and Paravthi won the best Leading Role Male and Female awards for the same film.
Lena Kumar, who played Prithiviraj’s mother in the film, pocketed the best S upporting Role Female award, while Shreya Ghosal won the best Playback Singer Female award.
Filmmaker Lal Jose won the award for Best Direction for the film “Neena”.
Aju Varghese won the award for best Supporting Role Male for his work in highly-successful film “Oru Vadakkan Selfie”.
Last year’s widely popular blockbuster “Premam”, a coming of age tale, bagged five awards, including best Music Direction for Rajesh Murugesan.
Other awards for the film include best Playback Singer Male for Vijay Yesudas and Lyrics for Shabareesh Verma.
Vinay Forrt won the best actor in a Comic Role award for “Premam”, while act or Jayasuriya bagged the best actor in a Negative Role for his work in “Iyobinte Pusthakam”.
At the award ceremony, special tributes were paid to late filmmaker K. Balachander, music composer M.S Vishwanathan and producer T.E Vasudevan.
On Monday (January 25), the best talent across the Telugu Kannada industries will be honoured in Hyderabad .
