TN candidate showers notes on EC official ||||
 A PMK candidate in Tamil Nadu was booked on Sunday after he showered an election official in Ulundurpet with currency notes protesting "inaction" by authorities. The candidate had earlier complained about the money being distributed to voters by AIADMK and DMK activists in the high-profile constituency. Notably, the Election Commission had postponed polling in Aravakurichi over similar concerns. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3ef5f52d-4d58-414a-b43c-5817f5143ace-1||||
A PMK candidate was booked in Ulundurpet Sunday after he showered currency notes on an election official to protest, what he called, the “inaction” of authorities to check alleged distribution of cash to voters by rival parties in his constituency.
The action of K Balu, contesting the May 16 assembly election as the PMK nominee from Ulundurpet constituency, sparked protest by government officials and police said they have registered a case against the candidate on charges of abusing officials.
Balu had lodged a complaint with the election officials regarding alleged distribution of money by AIADMK and DMK activists in the high-profile constituency to lure voters and demanded action. DMDK-PWF-TMC Chief Ministerial candidate Vijayakant is among the contestants in Ulundurpet constituency.
Alleging that the officials had failed to take any action on his complaint and money was being distributed, an agitated Balu went to the office of the election officer along with his supporters. He showered the currency notes on the officer claiming they were distributed by DMK and AIADMK to the local people.
He also staged a protest along with his partymen.
Taking objection to his behaviour, employees of revenue department held a demonstration in front of the tehsildar office here demanding action against the PMK nominee.
Police said the case had been registered against Balu and 47 others following a complaint from the election officer.
Incidentally, the Election Commission Saturay deferred polling in Aravakurichi constituency to May 23, citing “unlawful” activities of candidates and political parties in “bribing” voters.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
