Torrent site owner arrested for Udta Punjab leak ||||
 The cyber cell of the Mumbai Police has arrested Dipak Kumar, the owner of the torrent site 'allzmovies.in', in Delhi in the case concerning the online leak of the film 'Udta Punjab', two days ahead of its official release. The investigation by the police revealed that the first Censor copy was stolen and uploaded on Torrent by Kumar's website. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d3744dda-e257-4d7c-8bae-730b2273c164-1||||
The owner of torrent site allzmovies.in was arrested by the cyber cell of Mumbai Police on Wednesday in connection with Bollywood movie Udta Punjab leaking online, two days ahead of its release in theaters. The first torrent of the movie reportedly appeared on the site.
The accused, identified as Dilip Kumar, was traced by a police team after conducting searches in Delhi.
“The complainant was informed that the said movie was leaked on internet on two separate links of website of Torrent.com. On downloading the movie it was revealed that the first sensor copy was stolen and uploaded on Torrent.com by user robby007,” a Mumbai Police statement said.
Watch Udta Punjab Videos

“During the investigation, it was revealed that website allmovies.com had uploaded the said link on its website. A team visited Delhi and adjoining areas and after diligent efforts Dipak Kumar was traced. He was summoned to the cyber police station, Mumbai, and after thorough investigation, his active role was revealed. He has been arrested,” it added.
Earlier, the film’s producers had lodged a complaint with the cyber crime police in Mumbai after a copy of the film with ‘for censor’ written on the top left was leaked on various torrent websites, thereby raising questions about role of the censor board — Central Board of Film Certification — in the leak.
However, CBFC chairperson Pahlaj Nihalani had rejected the allegations saying the board has nothing to do with the leak.
“The person responsible has already been identified and the leak will be tracked down. We will cooperate if we are approached as part of the investigation,” Nihalani said.
The makers of Udta Punjab struggled to remove copies of the movie that were available for download on torrent sites, but managed to remove most of them.
