Guj HC stays order to give info on Modi's degree ||||
 The Gujarat High Court has put an interim stay on the Central Information Commission's (CIC) order directing the Gujarat University to provide information on PM Narendra Modi's degree to Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal. The university had contended that the CIC order was illegal as it was passed in a case in which the varsity was not a party. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/af26fbb1-6795-46a5-915a-8b003cb9fa81-1||||
The Gujarat High Court Monday stayed an order of the Central Information Commission (CIC), directing Gujarat University to provide “information regarding degrees in the name of Mr Narendra Damodar Modi”. It also issued fresh notices to Information Commissioner M Sridhar Acharyulu, who had passed the order, and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who had demanded the information.
A division bench of Chief Justice R Subhash Reddy and Justice V M Pancholi stayed the CIC’s directive till the High Court gives any further order on the plea of Gujarat University, which has questioned the information panel’s jurisdiction in the matter. There is no stay on the CIC’s directive to Delhi University to provide Modi’s marksheet.
Watch Video: What's making news
Appearing for Gujarat University, lawyer Tushar Mehta contended that the information commissioner’s order was “illegal” since it was passed in a case in which the varsity was not a party. He also noted that the information sought by Kejriwal has already been uploaded on the varsity website.
The bench then granted interim stay on the information commission’s order and also issued notices, returnable on September 6. Earlier, the varsity had told a single judge bench of the High Court that while deciding an appeal on an RTI application seeking information on electoral photo identity of card of Kejriwal, the CIC “suo motu decided the controversy as regards the qualification of the Prime Minister without any proceedings pending before him”.
The CIC order came after Kejriwal criticised the information panel, alleging that it was “obstructing information” about Modi’s degrees.
Acharyulu had asked Delhi University and Gujarat University “to make best possible search for information regarding degrees in the name of ‘Mr Narendra Damodar Modi’ in the year 1978 (Graduation in DU) and 1983 (Post-Graduation in GU) and provide it to the appellant Mr Kejriwal as soon as possible.”
