FIR against 2 for showing Mayawati as Kali ||||
 An FIR has been filed against two in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh for depicting BSP supremo Mayawati as Kali in a poster displayed during a procession to mark the 125th birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar at a rally. The poster showed Mayawati taking on PM Narendra Modi, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and HRD Minister Smriti Irani. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ab3a59d1-ecf5-496f-a1fa-820b99070855-1||||
Police in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh registered an FIR after a poster, depicting BSP supremo Mayawati as Kali taking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Union Minister HRD Minister Smriti Irani, surfaced at a rally Sunday.
The poster, on display during a procession to mark the 125th birth anniversary of B R Ambdekar, referred to Bhagwat’s suggestion last year on forming a committee “to decide which categories require reservation and for how long”.
On top of the poster it was written that “Mayawati roared in Parliament.” The poster, which was put as a part of a tableau, mentioned the name of its “creator” as Dhruv Singh Kardam.
The discovery and subsequent removal of the poster, led to BJP leaders lodging a protest and complaint with the police on Monday evening.
SP Ajay Pal confirmed that an FIR has been registered at Sadabad police station under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the IPC, on the basis of complaint lodged by BJP district president Ramvir Singh.
Circle Officer Narendra Dev said the the organiser of the procession, Om Prakash, and the creator of the poster, Kardam, have been named in the FIR.
The circle officer said the poster was brought by Kardam from Hathras town and it was removed as soon as it came to the notice of the police officials and organisers.
Former Samajwadi Party MP Ramji Lal Suman, who had gone to inaugurate the procession, said the objectionable poster had been removed before he reached there. He said the programme was organised by a non-political person so workers of various parties had taken part in it. “Any such depiction in politics is not acceptable. There should be a healthy criticism of political opponents,” he said.
BSP’s zonal coordinator and MLC Sunil Kumar Chittor said the party has nothing to do with the poster or programme where it was put on display. He said the people who have created the poster are not the office-bearers of the BSP.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
