Chinese media warns India over expelling scribes ||||
 Chinas state-run Global Times on Monday warned India of serious consequences for refusing to extend visas of three Chinese journalists. "Speculation is swirling that India is taking revenge against China for the latters opposition to India joining the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), read its editorial. India has reportedly ordered the scribes to leave by July 31. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d013fc00-0851-45cd-8bb4-02610344dafd-1||||
Taking umbrage at India’s refusal to extend visas to three Chinese journalists, a state-run daily on Monday warned of “serious consequences” if the matter was a fallout of Beijing’s refusal to back New Delhi’s NSG membership bid. “…speculation is swirling that India is taking revenge against China for the latter’s opposition to India joining the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG)…If New Delhi is really taking revenge due to the NSG membership issue, there will be serious consequences,” the editorial in the Global Times said.
Three Chinese journalists based in India representing the state-run Xinhua news agency were denied permission for extended stay in the country. The visas of the three journalists, Delhi-based Bureau Chief Wu Qiang and two reporters in Mumbai – Tang Lu and Ma Qiang, are expiring at the end of this month. All three had sought extension of their stay by a few months till their successors arrive. India’s act was described as an “expulsion” by some foreign media, the editorial said.
“No official reason was given for the rejection of the visa renewals. Some Indian media claimed that the three journalists are suspected of impersonating other people to access several restricted departments in Delhi and Mumbai with fake names. There were also reports attributing it to the journalists’ meeting with exiled Tibetan activists,” it said.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
Quoting its former Indian correspondent, Lu Pengfei, Global Times said there is “absolutely no need” for Chinese journalists in India to conduct interviews under fake names and it is completely normal for reporters to request interviews with the Dalai Lama group. “The act has sent negative messages and media communications between China and India will inevitably be negatively impacted,” the editorial titled, ‘India’s expulsion of reporters is a petty act’, said. It claimed that by opposing India’s NSG membership, China was not being disrespectful because it was obeying the rule that all NSG members are required to be signatories to the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).
“India has a suspicious mind. No matter whether Chinese reporters apply for a long-term or a temporary journalist visa, they will come across many troubles. Complaints about difficulties of acquiring an Indian visa have also been heard from other Chinese who deal with India. In contrast, it’s much easier for Indians to get a Chinese visa,” it said.
“On the visa issue this time, we should take action to display our reaction. We at least should make a few Indians feel Chinese visas are also not easy to get,” it added.
