Raj city records highest temp in India since '56 ||||
 According to the India Meteorological Department, Rajasthans Phalodi city recorded a maximum temperature of 50.5C on Wednesday. Notably, this is the highest temperature ever recorded in India since 1956, when Rajasthan's Alwar had reached 50.6C. Further, the IMD has issued a red alert, a severe heat wave warning, for parts of northern and central India over the next three days. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/94327ec3-e94b-431e-9d43-ebc394f6ed43-1||||
EVEN AS parts of Tamil Nadu and Kerala continued to receive rainfall for the third consecutive day, the whole of west, north and central India remained in the midst of a severe heat wave, with temperatures, both maximum and minimum, in many places being in excess of five degree celsius above normal.
The temperature crossed 50 degrees at Phalodi in western Rajasthan during the day. It recorded the highest temperature of 50.5 degrees, the Indian Meteorological Department said.
WATCH VIDEO | Severe Heat Wave Warning For North, Central India

Many other places recorded temperatures over 46 degrees celsius. Most places in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh were several degrees hotter than normal, all recording temperatures over 42 degrees.
Delhi touched 47 degrees, while Ahmedabad recorded its hottest day since 2010 at 46.9 degrees celsius. Other major cities, including Amritsar, Jaipur, Lucknow, Jodhpur, Kanpur, and Vadodara, had registered similarly high temperatures.
The IMD said the heat wave was likely to continue for at least three more days, after which temperatures are seen to be going down in many regions. The forecast is that after the end of this week, severe heat wave was likely to be restricted to some pockets of Rajasthan and Gujarat only. But the real relief can be expected only with the onset and advance of monsoon.
In contrast to the weather in the north, west and central India, south and parts of east India received showers, with temperatures well below normal.
The entire south Andaman Sea and Nicobar Islands had already started receiving monsoon rainfall, which was expected to cover the entire Andaman Islands and some parts of south Bay of Bengal in the next three or four days, the IMD said.
A deep depression over southwest Bay of Bengal has been resulting in rainfall over Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh coast. The depression is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours and bring more rains in the area, including on the Odisha coast, over the next two days.
“Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea along and off Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during the next 24 hours, along and off Andhra Pradesh coast during the next 48 hours and also and off the Odisha coast on 19th and 20th of May,” the IMD said in an advisory on Wednesday.
Chennai received 3 cm rainfall by Wednesday evening while Kakinada recorded 8 cm, and Nellore 5 cm, according to IMD.
Not surprisingly, temperatures in these parts have been below normal, in some places as much as three degree below normal. Temperatures in many places in Bihar, Assam, Meghalaya, and Kerala, were below normal.
