BSF to unveil tallest national flag ||||
 The Border Security Force (BSF) has announced plans to unveil a 350-feet-high national flag, the tallest in the country, near the Attari-Wagah border by January 2017. BSF officials said, "It can be seen both from Lahore as well as Amritsar". The current record is held by the flag on top of a 293-feet-high mast in Jharkhand's Ranchi. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/95a26834-93a8-4bc5-bc74-0ab8f108cdd0-1||||
BY January 2017, the BSF is planning to put up the tallest national flag near the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post (JCP). So high, a top BSF official said, that at 350 feet, “it can be seen both from Lahore as well as Amritsar”.
The move is part of the BSF’s expansion plans for the visitors’ gallery at the site of the iconic Retreat ceremony, said Ashok Kumar Yadav, the officiating Inspector General of BSF’s Punjab Frontier. Amritsar and Lahore are approximately 18 km away from the international border, he added.
“At that height, the flag would have to be proportionately sized, therefore it would also be the largest Tricolour. There is an intense atmosphere of patriotism during the Retreat ceremony, and the crowds are highly charged. The flag will serve as a beacon for them,” Yadav told The Indian Express.
The current record for the tallest national flag is held by the one atop a 293-ft-high mast in Jharkhand’s Ranchi. This 66-ftx99-ft flag was hoisted in January by Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar — it was, incidentally, brought down today for repairs after being stuck at half-mast 10 days ago. The earlier record was for the one in Faridabad, on a 250-ft mast.
BSF’s senior public relations officer, DIG R S Kataria, said a platform would be raised on which the flag’s mast will be installed at the border, keeping in view extreme weather conditions. CCTV cameras will also be installed around it.
Officials say the material to be used for the flag is also being discussed because at such heights it may get damaged by rain and high winds.
The border force is also planning to regulate the massive flow of tourists to the Retreat ceremony by making seats available online. Yadav said hundreds of tourists have to be turned away every day because the crowds often exceed the seating capacity. The visitors’ gallery at Attari has a seating capacity of around 7,000, which is expected to go up to 20,000.
“With the online booking facility, we will be able to ensure that the visitors are able to plan their visit and ensure that they get confirmed seats before coming all the way to the border,” said Yadav. However, a specific number of seats will be kept aside for tourists arriving at the last minute, he added.
WATCH THE INDIAN EXPRESS NEWS PLAY LIST
