AAP MP slammed for filming Parliament's security ||||
 Slamming AAP MP Bhagwant Mann for filming security stages politicians go through when they enter Parliament and sharing it on social media, the BJP on Friday demanded a breach of privilege motion against him in Lok Sabha. He must be quizzed, said BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi. Mann, however, claims that Google Earth too shows approach to Parliament on its website. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/388991fe-f2e8-4436-9cb8-d66f094d3879-1||||
Apart from demanding an investigation in the matter, several party's MPs have expressed their displeasure with Bhagwant Mann's controversial act.
The AAP politician recorded the stages of security a politician goes through when they enter Parliament in a video earlier today.
BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi demanded that Mann be quizzed by security agencies for his act.
"Has this happened only because stupidity or was done at the behest some irresponsible forces. Bhagwant Mann's de-briefing should be done by security agencies.
MANN 'EXPOSES' PARLIAMENT SECURITY
"The visitors who come to Parliament are not allowed any camera or even a pen drive. Only MPs and some police officers have that privilege. This was done because there should not be any compromise on security, especially after the Parliament faced terror attack," Lekhi said.
Congress MP P L Puniya said the act was a security breach.
Terming the act as "improper", former Lok Sabha Speaker Somnath Chatterjee hoped that the Speaker will take timely and appropriate step in this regard.
JD(U) MP K C Tyagi said he was surprised and scarred as the video exposed loopholes of the security.
"I am surprised with the video. The Speaker has formed a committee on security of Parliament and it will give its report. But we are scared due to the loopholes. It's out request with the President, Vice-President the Speaker and the Prime Minister to investigate this matter through a high level committee.
It could be debated whether he did for seeking publicity or he did to alert the security agencies," Tyagi said.
HERE'S WHAT HAPPENED
Aam Aadmi Party lawmaker Bhagwant Mann stoked a fresh controversy today in capital after he filmed a video while entering Parliament by crossing several security gateways. The MP also posted the video on social media which saw the attacks from leaders from BJP.
In the video, Mann is seen showing the entry gate of the Parliament through which MPs enter the Parliament house.
Mann has gone ahead with narrating all the security procedures which MP's go through as they make their way to the house.
"The car is registered with the Lok Sabha. It has a censor, which has the vehicle details. As soon as so you come near the gate, the censor identifies the car and announces the name and number of the car," Mann says in the video with him crossing several layers of the security.
While he was shooting the video, the AAP politician was also requested by a staff to not film anything.
MANN DEFENDS ACT
Without expressing any remorse after receiving criticism for filming the stages of security layers in Indian Parliament, Bhagwant Mann dismissed the remarks of his act being illegal.
Further justifying his act, he said that he intended to show people how does the Zero Hour questions are submitted. He also pointed out how the issues MPs want to raise are subjected to a lucky draw.
"Has my video put the Parliament in danger? How is this illegal? I will again make a video and put it. Let the notice come," a defiant Mann said in response to reporters query whether his act was a security breach or not.
(With inputs from PTI)
