'Kyaa Kool Hain Hum 3' is not cool: HT ||||
 Tusshar Kapoor and Aftab Shivdasani-starrer 'Kyaa Kool Hain Hum 3' which hit the screens on Friday "is not cool at all but stupid", wrote HT. "This film is unfunny, unimaginative with outright embarrassing dialogues," said Mid-Day. The Indian Express said, "The sex-comedy has no sex only false pretences". It has been rated 0/5 (Indian Express), 1.5/5 (Mid-Day) and 2/5 (HT). ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/60063282-0010-0001-7635-000012345678||||
An old couplet went thus: the bigger the better, the tighter the sweater. In a more innocent time, when there was no internet, girlie mags were hard to find, and pre-pubescent imagination was allowed to run riot, just reciting this caused endless giggles and naughty visions. In this day and age, when everything is laid bare (groan, pardon the lousy pun), the question remains: why would three fellows who look older than they should hang their tongues out at a succession of 38 Ds? (Read:Airlift movie review: Akshay Kumar film is well executed and well-acted)
Read: Airlift box office collections: Akshay Kumar film earns Rs. 12.35 cr. on opening day
The third in the ‘Kya Kool’ series faithfully follows the thrust-boob-butt template, as Kanhaiya (Tusshar Kapoor), Rocky (Aftab Shivdasani) and Mickey (Krushna Abishek) make whoopee in Thailand. Oh wait. In keeping with the nature of this flick, I should say peepee. Because that’s a word that raises laughs amongst the easy-to-please, as does the old ‘lena’, ‘dena’, ( a girl is called Marilee, sigh), ‘uski’, ‘chuski’, and so on. And, oh, also, ‘popat’, which means a ‘parrot’, and ahem, another word for the male private part. (Akshay Kumar’s Airlift and adult comedy Kya Kool Hain Hum 3 clash at box-office
This trio is surrounded by a bunch of leggy women, all of whom look like they’ve hired for their ample measurements in the upper and lower departments, and ability to show skin. All they are meant to do is to bite their lips, and sigh orgasmically, whenever the plot runs out of steam, which happens so often that you lose count.
Also read: Kyaa Kool Hain Hum 3 box earns Rs 8.15 cr. on opening day 
Meanwhile, this is what we get: a mouse running up a pant leg and nesting in a delicate body part, a crow sitting on self-same body part, water running down several bosoms, and.. okay, I’m hitting the pause button, because this is a family newspaper/website.
Also read: I will never stop doing adult comedies: Tusshar Kapoor 
Hold on, though. This film calls itself a ‘sex comedy’: I don’t know about you, but this business of keeping actors standing in a room in one line just the way they would in a sit com (that’s how we know it is an Ekta Kapoor production, apart from Tusshar’s constant presence), and tossing juvenile lines amongst themselves, doesn’t spell ess-ee-ex to me.
Also read: Don’t understand hullabaloo over adult comedy films: Tusshar Kapoor
So no sex. And all those limp jokes don’t add up to a comedy, either. What it is, is false pretences. Can I please call it a falsie? I know, groan again. Given the previous two flicks, did we really think this would be a bag of laughs? More fool hain hum.
Airlift takes off in style, Kya Kool Hain Hum 3 gets thumbs down from audience, Watch video
No stars
Star Cast of Kya Kool Hain Hum 3: Tusshar Kapoor, Aftab Shivdasani, Krushna Abhishek, Shakti Kapoor, Darshan Zariwala, Sushmita Mukherjee
Director: Umesh Ghadge
Watch I will never stop doing adult comedies: Tusshar Kapoor:
