Chandigarh to introduce mobile toilet vans ||||
 Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has announced plans to introduce mobile toilet vans that will be stationed in areas that do not have public toilets. The civic body plans to buy 10 such vans with ten toilet blocks as a "step towards the Swachh Abhiyan". These movable toilet vans can also be used in case of rallies...or any functions", Chandigarh's Mayor said. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/10248830-0005-0001-6786-000012345678||||
After failing to maintain its public toilets, the Municipal Corporation has now decided to introduce toilet vans. The civic body is set to buy as many as 10 mobile toilet vans initially; each van will comprise ten toilet blocks. They will be stationed at busy areas that lack public toilets.
“It is a step towards Swachh Abhiyan. In the absence of public toilets at some places, people urinate in the open. So for that purpose we will be purchasing 10 in the first phase,” Mayor Arun Sood said.
“These movable toilet vans can also be used in case of rallies or Dussehra, Ramleelas or any function which sees huge public gathering,” he added.
In normal days, the vans will be placed in busy market areas and near the grain market. The Municipal Corporation has, however, been facing flak for not maintaining its public toilets. The situation is such that most of the 240
public toilets in the city are locked.
In a recent meeting with the Municipal Corporation Commissioner, bankers had committed to taking over maintenance of public toilets. Talks are also on with business and industrial establishments to adopt some of the toilets.
After the issue of Selvel company that took over over 100 toilets but due to which the MC struggled to recover dues
of crores, officials have ensured that the banks or any other enterprise will not be allowed to put advertisement of their respective companies. Only the name of the firm will be put in the specific format size at the designated space.
The MC had tried to rope in market associations and residents welfare associations to take over the toilets but most of them refused.
