My son looks exactly like me: Tusshar ||||
 Actor Tusshar Kapoor, who recently became a single father to a baby boy using surrogacy, has said that Laksshya, his newborn son looks exactly like him. "I am turning 40 in a few months, so I felt I was in the right stage to become a single parent... I wanted to have my own child," added Tusshar. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/dabdcca2-6383-4835-9a00-69001fb4061b-1||||
Actor Tusshar Kapoor reveals that he has become a father to a son through in vitro fertilization procedure and says that his son Laksshya looks exactly like him.
“I wanted to be a father. I met Dr. Firuza Parikh and she suggested this procedure. I was in a hurry to become a father. I am turning 40 in a few months, so I felt I was in the right stage to become a single parent and I went ahead with what was told to me.
See Pics: Tusshar Kapoor Proudly Announces The Arrival Of His Son Laksshya
“I am happy that I have taken the right decision. Our family is complete now, we are five now, grandparents, me, my sister and little Laksshya,” Tusshar said while addressing the media at his residence.
Also read: Parenthood is now an option for many who choose to be single parents, says Tusshar Kapoor
Tusshar didn’t reveal the date of birth of his son but said that he came home a week back and was sleeping during the course of the media interaction.
“I wanted to be a single parent, my dream has come true. My son looks exactly like me, so it makes me very happy. I have no words to express how excited or joyous I feel right now.
Also read: Tusshar Kapoor becomes a dad; sister Ekta, Karan Johar, Bollywood send in congratulations 
“It’s just your paternal instinct when you feel mentally that you are ready to become a father… Lot of people adopt, but I didn’t want to adopt, I wanted to have my own child.”
Previously, both superstars Aamir Khan and Shah Rukh Khan conceived their third child through the IVF and surrogacy procedure.
Also read: Tusshar Kapoor’s in-flight chat with Prakash Jha inspired him to try surrogacy 
A conversation with Rajneeti director Prakash Jha, who has an adopted daughter, was one of the reasons behind Tusshar’s decision.
“I had visited Tirupati temple last year and while I was leaving after the darshan, I met Prakash Jha who was also in my flight. And in our conversation he said that this (IVF) is also a way if you want to have a child, if you want to be a single parent. He introduced me to a family who had followed the IVF and surrogacy procedure. So I felt very inspired and felt I was ready,” Tusshar said.
Also read: Tusshar Kapoor becomes father to baby boy using surrogacy 
Actress Sushmita Sen is a single mother to two adopted daughters.
