Guj hospital to study couples with same-sex kids ||||
 A hospital to study why some couples have only same-sex children, such as only boys or only girls, will be set up in Ahmedabad soon, said Gujarat Chief Minister Anandiben Patel. She added, "There are physically deformed children being born... But today, there is technology...this can be treated in the womb," and "such mothers" can also visit the hospital. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d3db147a-cba4-43b4-8305-a693425fd72c-1||||
The Gujarat government will set up a special hospital to carry out research on the “problem” in couples that might result in their having either only sons or only daughters, Chief Minister Anandiben Patel said on Saturday. She was aware that one of the major reasons for discord in families was “progeny”, the chief minister said.
“I am a woman, and being a woman I understand the stress that women undergo physically and mentally. There are so many women and so many families that we hear of where there is discord, and often divorces, because of the want of sons. If there are two girls and a third one arrives and they want sons, the man talks of remarrying, giving much mental stress to the women. Even if there is a fault with men, it is blamed on the women,” Patel told a Mahila Sammelan in Pavi Jetpur in Chhota Udepur on the occasion of Gujarat Foundation Day.
Patel, who was speaking in Gujarati, said: “Ghar ma bey dikrio janme aney treeji dikri janme etle em kehva ma aave, havey mane dikro joyiye chhey etla maate beeji patni karo. Purush ma dosh hova chhata pan dosh no toplo mahila upar nakhwama aavey chhey ane etla maate aapdi sarkar ane main nakki karyu chhey key aavi jetli pan samasayao chhey, e samasyao maatey ek special hospital banavvi joiye, jema eva parivaro aavey ane eno shodh-sanshodhan thaay ki kem… shaa maatey sattat dikriyo no janma thaay chhey… koi eva parivaro chhey ke bey dikraao chhey aney ghar ma dikri pan joiye chhey… ghar ma dikri pan joyiye chhey… parantu dikri no janma thato naathi… aney eni pann ichha adhuri rahi jay chhey…” (“If there are two daughters born in the home, and the third child born is also a daughter, then she is told, now I want a son, so get another wife. Even if the fault is with the man, the entire burden of the fault is on the woman’s head, and so our government and I have decided that for all such problems, there should be a special hospital, where families can come and there would be research on why, for what reason, back-to-back daughters are born… there are some families that have two sons and the home wants a daughter… the home also wants a daughter… but the daughter is not born… and their desire remains unfulfilled…”)
The state-of-the-art hospital had been provided for in the state Budget for this year, and would be set up soon in Ahmedabad, the chief minister said.
She went on to say, “…There are physically deformed children being born and miscarriages that are stressful. I keep listening to these stories. But today, there is technology. I can assure you that this can be treated in the womb… All such women who are pregnant… families who give birth to speech- and hearing-impaired and physically challenged children… On the one hand, there will be a hospital where such mothers can go… and by sonography they can be treated, and on the other hand there can be research on such families to find out what is the reason behind this? Whose DNA should be changed to get rid of these problems? Therefore in this year’s budget, a woman and child care hospital will be ready in Ahmedabad in eight months which will solve these problems.”
The Indian Express had reported on April 28 the case of a tribal couple in Garbhada taluka in Dahod, who are hoping that their 17th child would be a son.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
