Delhi govt approves Punjabi, Urdu teachers posts ||||
 The Delhi government on Friday approved its education department's proposal to create 769 posts for the teachers of Punjabi language and 610 posts for Urdu teachers. Earlier, the AAP government had made it compulsory for all government schools to have at least one Punjabi teacher. This move comes ahead of the assembly polls in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/6eb64d87-b549-4a89-96e2-fe0ab770c08c-1||||
teachers
New Delhi, Jun 24 (PTI) The Delhi government today approved a proposal of its education department to create 769 posts of trained graduate teachers for Punjabi language and 610 posts of Urdu teachers.
The move is aimed at promoting both the languages at the government schools. Decision ensures that there will be at least one teacher for Sanskrit, Punjabi and Urdu in every Delhi government school.
The decision was taken at a meeting of Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal held at Delhi Secretariat.
The move comes at a time when the ruling Aam Aadmi Party is gearing up for contesting Punjab Assembly polls which are slated to be held next year.
At present, out of a total of 1,024 (898 Sr. Secondary, 106 Secondary and 20 Middle) government schools in Delhi, Sanskrit is taught in about 98 per cent schools, while Punjabi is taught in about 24 per cent schools and Urdu in about 25 per cent schools.
In the academic year 2015-16, 28,612 students have opted for Punjabi language and 82,341 students for Urdu language at the time of admission.
A senior government official said the present position is that up to class VIII, three languages are being taught, and in classes IX and X, only two languages are taught.
Delhi government wants to provide the facility of at least one such language teacher in each school so that students are not discouraged from opting Punjabi and Urdu languages.
"The Cabinet also decided to form a Society for Excellence in Education to devise systems and approaches for improving and sustaining quality in education with emphasis on character building and personality," the official said.
The official added that this society is an effort in the direction of bridging all social category gaps in the availability of quality education to children up to 18 years age group.
