Vidya Balan to play cop in Sujoy Ghosh's 'Te3n' ||||
 Actress Vidya Balan will make a special appearance as a cop in Ribhu Dasgupta's upcoming film 'Te3n', the actress revealed on Saturday. Produced by Sujoy Ghosh, the film stars Amitabh Bachchan and Nawazuddin Siddiqui in lead roles. "I was excited because its a fabulous script... its a chance to shoot again in Kolkata", Vidya said. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/20970020-0011-0012-1799-000012345678||||
Actress Vidya Balan today revealed that she will be seen in a special appearance as a cop in Sujoy Ghosh-produced upcoming film “Te3n”. The film, directed by Ribhu Dasgupta, features megastar Amitabh Bachchan and actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui in pivotal roles.
“I am playing a cop, it’s a special appearance. I was excited because it’s a fabulous script… it’s a chance to shoot again in Kolkata, with Bachchan sahab, Nawazuddin and Sujoy,” Vidya told reporters here this evening. The National Award-winning actress was speaking at the launch of author Piyush Jha’s latest crime-fiction novel “Raakshas”.
“Te3n” will mark the reunion of the “Dirty Picture” star with Sujoy and Nawazuddin with whom she earlier worked in the 2012 thriller “Kahaani”. The 37-year-old, however, said even though it is the same team which has come together to make “Te3n”, the film will be different. “It is not ‘Kahaani’. The story is different. I am shooting in Kolkata and most of the people in the team are the same who worked in ‘Kahaani’. I am enjoying it. Working with Sujoy is always fun, even with Bachchan sahab and Nawazuddin.”
Just like “Kahaani”, “Te3n” is also being shot in the West Bengal capital. Asked if the city is lucky for her, the “No One Killed Jessica” actress said, “That I don’t know… If the film is good it will become lucky anyway. We are just doing our work and enjoying it.”
Vidya earlier worked with Bachchan in the 2009 drama “Paa”, where she played mother to the latter, then 67 years, suffering from Progeria. Dasgupta has previously directed the 2014 TV drama mini -series “Yudh” which starred Big B. PTI
