Equation with Deepika same as before: Priyanka ||||
 Actress Priyanka Chopra has said that her equation with actress Deepika Padukone has not changed but is the same as it was earlier. "Earlier you all (media) used to write we are BFFs (best friends forever) so why and how did this change. You only said it has changed," said Priyanka while denying rumours of a rift with Deepika. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/f5acee1c-10ba-4a5b-82e8-4107df881e21-1||||
Deepika Padukone had once famously revealed how Priyanka was her first industry friend when she entered Bollywood. However the Piku actresses rising Hollywood career that started after Priyanka Chopra made her her sparkling debut in the West sparked off rumours of the Bajirao Mastani actresses not being on good terms anymore owing to the stiff competition offered by Deepika to Priyanka on the global platform. However Priyanka today sought to put an end to the speculative reports suggesting her friendship with latter going kaput.
WATCH VIDEO: I Don’t Want To Be A Spoof In Hollywood: Priyanka Chopra
 
At the launch of a men’s magazine’s special issue, Priyanka when quizzed about the apparent change in her equation with Deepika said,”Earlier you all (media) used to write we are BFFs (best friends forever) so why and how did this change. I did not say it (equation) has changed. You only said it has changed. I am clarifying whatever it was earlier, it is same today also. Your (media) perspective has changed and that shouldn’t have happened.”
Watch: My Equation with Deepika Is The Same As It Was Before: Priyanka Chopra
When asked about how she reacted to Deepika’s team trying to get good projects for her in the West, Priyanka said,”It doesn’t make sense for me to answer on someone else. I don’t pay attention to what others are doing. My career has been very solitary. My career has nothing to do with the success and failure of others. I hope the way I am trying to open doors for others (Indian actors) by representing Indian film industry in the west, a lot of South Asian actors too get an entry on global level. Whoever gets good work I will always wish them well. I would wish them more success than me.”
Priyanka also said she had no idea why her couple dance performance with Deepika at a recently concluded award function was cancelled at the last moment.
