PM prays for Sonias recovery, offers assistance ||||
 PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday prayed for Congress President Sonia Gandhis quick recovery, who took ill during her roadshow in Varanasi, and also reportedly offered to send a doctor and an aircraft to bring her back to Delhi. Later, he also inquired about her health from Congress CM candidate in UP, Sheila Dikshit, who was accompanying her in Varanasi. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/8289b1de-6e61-4084-acc1-410ef897f7ad-1||||
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took to Twitter to wish Congress President Sonia Gandhi a quick recovery and prayed for her good health. The Congress chief’s Varanasi rally was cut short mid-way due to her ill-health. PM Narendra Modi tweeted, “Heard about Sonia ji’s ill health during her Varanasi visit today. I pray for her quick recovery and good health.”
Sonia Gandhi was leading a massive roadshow in PM Modi’s constituency for the party’s campaign for the 2017 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, where it is out of power for nearly three decades. Gandhi, however, had to cut short the roadshow towards the fag end of the eight-km march route in the evening after she fell ill as it wound through the streets of the temple town for nearly three hours.
Congress sources said Gandhi cancelled her planned visit to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple in the evening to offer prayers and was returning to Delhi. The sources said that Gandhi was suffering from viral fever but had decided to go ahead with the roadshow as she was not inclined to cancel it at the last minute.
The roadshow, which continued for about three hours, was halted for sometime at the Lohurabir roundabout near the fag end of the roadwhow from the Circuit House to Englishiya Line. The roadshow later proceeded without Gandhi. The sources said Gandhi complained of uneasiness and after taking rest for sometime, she left the area. Thousands of Congress supporters and workers took part in the roadshow.
WATCH VIDEO: Keystrokes: Sonia Gandhi, Sheila Dikhit Have An Eye On UP
 
Heard about Sonia ji’s ill health during her Varanasi visit today. I pray for her quick recovery and good health.
— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) August 2, 2016
It was Gandhi’s first visit to Varanasi after Modi became Prime Minister in May 2014. The march began with Gandhi garlanding the statue of B R Ambedkar at the Circuit House and the marchers criss-crossed lanes and bylanes of the temple town.
Gandhi, who was initially travelling in a car and later moved to a vehicle with open sunroof, waved at the crowd which cheered and raised slogans against the Modi government. She came out of her vehicle several times to accept the greetings of the cheering supporters, including groups of Muslim women. As the road show passed through several localities, rose petals were showered on Gandhi and her cavalcade from adjoining buildings.
Dozens of mini trucks prominently displayed posters with ’27 Saal, UP Behaal’ (27 years of UP’s distress) written on them. Placards carried by hundreds of workers also had the same slogan written on them. Besides the party’s chief ministerial candidate Sheila Dikshit, AICC General Secretary Ghulam Nabi Azad, state party chief Raj Babbar and senior leaders Pramod Tiwari and Sanjay Singh accompanied Gandhi. Babbar expressed the hope there will be a “miracle” in favour of his party in the elections.
with PTI inputs
