Tiger, Disha to star in 'Munna Michael' ||||
 Actors Tiger Shroff and Disha Patani will star in director Sabbir Khan's next film titled 'Munna Michael'. The film reportedly revolves around a boy from the streets of Teen Batti in Mumbai.  "The film will have my usual andaaz- power-packed action sequences. It'll be a mass entertainer," said Viki Rajani, the producer. It will go on floors in September. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c1347737-a631-489e-95dc-5e67c70b28e3-1||||
Tiger Shroff and Disha Patani are all set to recreate their real-life chemistry on 70mm. After the rumoured lovebirds made heads turn with the crackling chemistry in a music video, director Sabbir Khan has roped in Tiger and Disha for his next film. The Baaghi director seems to be impressed by Befikra and now wants the rumoured couple in his action-musical.
ALSO READ: Tiger Shroff thinks girlfriend Disha Patani is way out of his league
ALSO READ: Tiger Shroff's movie date with rumoured girlfriend Disha Patani 
A source was d as telling DNA, "The music video (Befikra)was just a stepping stone to evaluate whether the audience will love Tiger and Disha. Now, it's time for the lovebirds to come together for a full-fledged Hindi film."
After the success of Heropanti and Baaghi, this is the third time that Tiger and Sabbir will collaborate for a film. Titled Munna Michael, the film  revolves around a boy from the streets of Teen Batti. And if sources are to be believed, it will be shot in real locations and a recce is currently underway.
Viki Rajani, producer of the film, confirmed the news to Mumbai Mirror and said, "Tiger is phenomenal in his action as well as dance and his role in Munna Michael is tailor-made to showcase his winning moves. Sabbir and Tiger have proven their hit pairing and audiences can once again look forward to magic."
Known to be a superb dancer, Tiger will yet again show off some dance moves in Sabbir's next. In fact, his character in the film idolises Michael Jackson and a lot of dance sequences are expected in Munna Michael.
"The film will have my usual andaaz - power-packed action sequences. It'll be a mass entertainer," added the producer.
Munna Michael is set to go on floors in September this year.
