SOP followed by personnel in Pampore: CRPF DG ||||
 CRPF Director General K Durga Prasad on Monday rejected Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar's remarks that the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) might not have been followed by CRPF personnel during the Pampore encounter. However, he added that the SOPs and the security drill will be reviewed and that CRPF convoys will be provided with bullet-proof protection while moving in the state. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3e262005-8771-414a-a2a6-d593fe4e9106-1||||
New Delhi, Jun 27 (PTI) Rejecting suggestions that not following SOPs might have led to high casualties in Saturday's ambush by militants in Jammu and Kashmir's Pampore, CRPF today said all laid down procedures were "absolutely" adhered to by its personnel.
It, however, said the security drill will be reviewed and convoys of the central paramilitary force will be provided bullet-proof protection while moving in the state.
CRPF Director General K Durga Prasad, during a press conference at the force's headquarters here said his men, before laying down their lives, valiantly fought back the two terrorists and fired as many as 91 rounds.
"I really have no comments to make on that...but whatever SOPs are in position right now they have been followed and that's the reason why I said that we will require and can have a look at them again.
"They (standard operating procedures) were absolutely followed," he said when asked to comment on Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar's statement voicing doubt over whether the SOPs were followed properly by the bus-borne CRPF personnel.
He said the force will look at "tweaking" its security drills this time too, as always, and as a special measure, 3-feet high and 3mm thick bullet proof plates will be used on vehicles to provide them armoured protection, as was being done by the army.
Prasad added the force needs to do a "little bit more" of vehicle checking by deploying security check posts with JK police so that they can "detect" possible terrorists travelling undercover.
"We will have to conduct vehicle checks at more places and more frequently. The militants who came to attack were wearing normal black trousers and T-shirts and were not wearing usual 'kaftaans' that they could be identified," he added.
It has been decided that henceforth convoys will move in blocks of at least three vehicles so they are better protected.
