Won't accept India's big brother attitude: Nepal ||||
 Listing down issues affecting Nepal due to the blockade and Madhesi protests, Pradeep Gyawali, Secretary of ruling Nepalese party CPN(UML) said on Sunday though Nepal wants to maintain cordial relations with India it won't accept its "big brother attitude". Gyawali said that China and Nepal enjoy good rapport and the former has never interfered in political changes in the country. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/88043007-0009-0011-0116-000012345678||||
Nepal will not accept the “big brother” attitude of India though it intends to maintain cordial bilateral relations with the country, a senior leader of ruling Nepalese CPN(UML) said today.
Pradeep Gyawali, Secretary of CPN(UML), also urged the Narendra Modi government to address the recent strain in the ties on a “priority basis”, asserting if India wants to play a role in world politics, it will have to first have cordial relations with its neighbours.
“We want to take forward relationship with India based on equality and same applies to China…We will not accept big brother attitude. Our opposition to India’s big brother attitude does not mean we are inviting some other country to behave that way. Relations have to be equal (balanced) is what we feel,” Gyawali told PTI.
“India is an emerging power. If India wants to play a role in world politics, it will have to first form cordial relationships with neighbouring countries. Otherwise, its role will be questioned and challenged. So, we want Indian Government to review its position and address the problems which have surfaced (after Nepal adopted the new Constitution). We will expect India respects our sovereignty, right of Nepalese people to take care of its own problems,” he added.
Gyawali said Nepal and China enjoy “good” rapport and the latter has “never interfered” in political changes in the country. He maintained Beijing’s assistance to Kathmandu in recent times was mainly because of the friendship between the two nations and that there is “no political interest involved”.
“Their assistance to us during earthquake, during this economic blockade is only due to our friendship, there is no political interest involved in it.
“Though Nepal shares good relations with China, this cannot be equated with its ties with India due to people-to-people and cultural connect between New Delhi and Kathmandu,” he said.
“Our economic viabilities cannot be with China as our rivers flow towards (India). If we produce hydroelectricity, India is the only market for it. We can’t sell the energy to China. So, we don’t understand why Indian Government is not able to see this,” he noted.
The communist leader urged the Modi government to “review” its position on Nepal and address the problems between the two countries on a priority basis.
The CPN(UML) leader further hoped promulgation of the new Constitution in the Himalayan country will bring prosperity to its people who, he said, have toiled for 70 years to see this happen.
Nepal’s Madhesis, people of Indian origin, are up in arms against the new Constitution, which they claim discriminates against them. Their protests on Indo-Nepal border have severely affected civil supplies and triggered acute shortage of essential commodities.
“We are not getting fuel, we can’t use vehicles therefore. Schools are shut, medical treatments have been affected due to lack of medicines, equipment. The Madhesi group has certain concerns and is protesting. Those can be solved,” he said.
He alleged, “What India is doing is making the protest an excuse (for blockade). It is very unexpected, we are surprised,” he said.
