Water weed mats to be used for Yoga Day ||||
 To encourage indigenous artisans, the government has procured yoga mats made with water hyacinth, an aquatic weed, for the International Yoga Day celebrations. The government had faced criticism last year for the use of some 'Made in China' mats. This comes after Ayush Minister Shripad Yesso Naik called for the "use of locally-made yoga mats...preferably with the locally-available raw material". ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/396d7890-f77a-4abf-b221-3f413cf5f7a6-1||||
New Delhi, Jun 18 (PTI) To encourage indigenous artisans, unique yoga mats made with water hyacinth, an aquatic weed, have been procured by the government for International Yoga Day celebrations on June 21, AYUSH minister Shripad Yesso Naik said.
With the government last year facing flak for procuring some 'Made in China' mats for the maiden IYD celebrations, Naik had last week requested state governments "to encourage use of locally-made yoga mats and apparels, preferably with the locally-available raw material to provide employment opportunities to local artisans and small entrepreneurs."
Naik said 500 water hyacinth mats have been purchased from North Eastern Handicrafts and Handloom Development Corporation Limited (NEHHDC), which is the marketing channel for North Eastern Development Finance Corporation Limited (NEDFi).
4,500 artisans from Assam and Manipur have been trained by NEDFi over a period of six years in the art of making products from water hyacinth. This was part of the efforts to help craftsmen from the region to replace traditional raw materials like cane and bamboo used for making furniture and other accessories.
"Irregular supply of cane and high cost of procurement of bamboo have been a major cause of concern for the artisans associated with the Cane and Bamboo Craft.
"... hence, effort was made to identify alternative low cost raw materials where the existing skill of the craftsperson can be used to make products suitable for the contemporary market," a statement issued by NEDFi said.
Water hyacinth grows abundantly in the region and is a weed that destroys local eco-system by blocking sunlight, preventing oxygen exchange by other aquatic plants and affecting pisciculture. In fact, during the British rule, Assam Water Hyacinth Act, 1926 was enacted to restrict the growth of the weed. The act is still in force.
High quality bags and baskets made of water hyacinth in Thailand had originally served as an inspiration for this project, according to NEDFi.
