Delhi police to track drones before Republic Day ||||
 The Delhi Police reportedly considered the use of drones in the national capital a "major threat" ahead of the Republic Day celebrations. The Delhi Police Chief also asked police from different states to keep an eye on drone use, officials said. The drones threat became a priority after police failed to track a drone recently spotted near the Delhi airport. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/76994787-0000-0001-6914-000012345678||||
Police in the national capital and neighbouring states will keep a vigilant eye on “drones”, which have been perceived as a major threat to security especially in view of the Republic Day celebrations ahead.
“The subject of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), commonly referred to as drones, was taken up as a priority in the latest Inter-State Coordination Meeting.
“Delhi Police Chief (B S Bassi) has asked his force and police departments of the neighbouring states to keep a vigilant eye on drones, as they have been perceived as a major threat to security, especially in view of Republic Day,” a senior police official said.
The matter attained priority after a UAV was spotted near IGI Airport around three months ago but its source or handler could not be tracked by the police, following which Delhi Police also announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh last month for any information on the same.
The Inter-State Coordination Meeting, chaired by Bassi was held this Thursday.
It was attended by the top brass of police departments in Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand.
The main objective of the meeting was to share terror- related intelligence and inputs about various extremist outfits and their designs, besides curbing criminal activities in NCR region and having better coordination on all aspects of policing in view of the coming Republic Day, the senior official said.
The pr ocess of verification of records in internet cafes, hotels, guest houses and tenants in the national capital have been intensified by the police.
“This year the drive -– which is a routine process before Republic Day every year –- is being carried out with increased intensity in the wake of the recent terror attack in Pathankot, following which Delhi Police also received input about presence of key members of Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit here,” the senior official said.
He further said that during the meeting, Bassi also stressed on increasing police presence, intensive and coordinated checking at vulnerable points, and sensitisation of second-hand car dealers, transporters, property dealers, among others.
This year, Delhi Police has put special focus on security along the city borders and specialised teams of commandos have been pressed into service, the official said, adding that the force has also acquired 200 digital cameras which can capture minute details, to be installed at strategic locations in and around Rajpath.
