Oracle to open its 1st India campus in Bengaluru ||||
 Under the governments 'Make in India' campaign, Oracle will open its first India campus in Bengaluru. Spread over 2.8 million square feet, the campus will be the largest outside Oracles headquarters in California, US, and will include collaboration centers, workstations, entertainment lounges, gyms and cafes. The company will also launch nine incubation centers in the country. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/89891363-0022-0002-1440-000012345678||||
Oracle has announced plans to expand campuses outside the US and will open one in Bengaluru as part of the ‘Make in India’ campaign. The company will also launch 9 incubation centres throughout India, and train more than half a million students each year to develop computer science skills.
Also Read: Facebook Messenger has new feature to help you with ‘Valentine’s day’
“India now represents our second largest employee base outside of the United States, with nearly 40,000 current employees and an additional 2,000 current job openings. We are investing over $400 million USD in Bengaluru, opening 9 incubation centers, and training half a million students each year during this expansion phase to support India’s tremendous growth. We ‘Make in India’ for the rest of the world,” said Oracle CEO Safra Catz.


The Oracle India campus will be spread over a huge 2.8 million square feet, and will be largest outside its headquarters in Redwood Shores, California. The buildings will include collaboration centers, workstations, and large spaces in addition to entertainment lounges, gyms, a basketball court, open green spaces, and cafes.
Photos: Xiaomi Mi 5 to launch on Feb 24: Camera samples, leaked pics and more
The nine Incubation Centers will contribute to country’s “Start-up India” initiative. These will help start-ups grow by providing software, tools, and training to new software and technology companies utilising Java and the Oracle platform. The centres will be located in Bengaluru, Chennai, Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Mumbai , Noida, Pune, Trivandrum and Oracle Academy Expansion.
“I’m particularly excited about the incubation centers which will house substantial software and technology capabilities, tools, and training to help launch new technology startups built utilizing Java and the Oracle platform,” said Catz.
