Anurag Kashyap to give masterclass on censorship ||||
 Director Anurag Kashyap will conduct a masterclass on censorship at the upcoming Indian Film Festival of Melbourne to be held from August 11-21. "I can... talk about how censorship is so pointless in the day and age of the internet," said Anurag. Many of Anurag's films including 'Gulaal', 'Black Friday' and 'Udta Punjab' have faced censorship from the Censor Board. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/9ea8697d-7bdb-41d8-929a-ebf4cf0fa32f-1||||
Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, who has had a long battle with the Central Board of Film Certification over several films such as Udta Punjab, Gulaal and Black Friday, is set to deliver a master class on censorship to students and cinema lovers alike in Australia.
The master class will be held at the upcoming Indian Film Festival of Melbourne. The festival, which will be attended by more Bollywood celebrities like Rishi Kapoor, Fawad Khan, Richa Chadha and Radhika Apte, will begin on August 11 in Melbourne.
“I can put forth my point of view and talk about how censorship is so pointless in the day and age of the internet. I am excited as this is my first time there and I am really looking forward to interacting with the students,” Anurag Kashyap said in a statement.
Recently Anurag Kashyap was involved in a controversy over the release of his film, Udta Punjab. While the CBFC wanted to cut a large number of scenes in the film, claiming obscenity and defamation. Anurag had approached the court, which ruled in his favour. The film was finally passed with one cut.
Earlier in 2009, his film Gulaal was rejected by the Censor Board for its volatile content. However, the revising committee had given the film a go-ahead with four cuts and an ‘A’ certificate.
“In a scene, a mad man says ‘Gandhiji’ when he sees a man with round frames, the word Gandhiji has been deleted. Then there was a scene about our national song, ‘Jana gana mana’, which was also chopped. Apart from that there were minor cuts like a shot where the brand of a cigarette is visible. The Board is strict about not showing the brand names of any cigarette or alcohol. That’s about it,” Director Anurag Kashyap had said to The Times Of India back then.
 
(With IANS inputs)
