I am a good listener & family man: Arnab Goswami ||||
 Television news anchor Arnab Goswami, known for 'The Newshour' debate, said, "You wont believe... my friends will tell you that I am a very good listener", in an interview. He added that he was a "family man" who leads a "normal life". Talking about his spoofs and trolls online, Goswami said, "No one gives me royalty but... Its good fun". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/e85e3835-9af4-4325-b078-688adcc5a02e-1||||
A very different version of Arnab Goswami was on display in an interview he gave to Red FM, the video of which was posted on YouTube on Thursday. He was neither shouting nor flailing his hands, as is typical in his 9 pm prime-time news debates on Times Now, the channel he heads.
Speaking in Assamese, Goswami told the radio channel that he was in fact a good listener, contrary to what many may think.
“You won’t believe…they (my friends) will tell you that I am a very good listener..(laughs)…which you may not agree..but when I sit with my friends, I talk less and I listen more,” said Goswami.
Goswami, in what was a light-hearted interview, assured his interviewer that he led a ‘normal life’ and was a ‘normal family man’. He said people were often surprised to see him at social functions not shouting or talking loudly.
But he agreed that news was his life and that he had no other interest.
When asked how he reacted to trolls or spoofs on the internet, Goswami said,”I am quite flattered. No one gives me royalty but they make spoofs of me…I get to see the spoof videos. It’s good. It’s good fun.”
Goswami, known for his aggressive style of anchoring, revealed in the interview that debating was his school hobby.
Also read | Behind Goswami’s diatribe, the realisation he can never go to Pakistan
“Earlier, in studio, I used to have very calm, quiet discussions…so I used to really miss debating. Later when I got the chance to start a new channel of my own, then I really came back to my old habits. And the last 7-8 years my hobby, school hobby of debating, has become my career. And I have never enjoyed myself more on a daily basis,” he told the radio channel.
Watch video
The journalist, whose channel does not miss an opportunity to harp on its television ratings, also spoke about his catchphrase ‘Nation wants to know’ and the origin behind it.
The prime-time news anchor recently lashed out against sections of the media and ‘pseudo-liberals’ for taking an ‘anti-India’ position, especially on matters relating to Kashmir. A response, in the form of a Facebook post, was later penned by Barkha Dutt, consulting editor of NDTV, in which she said she ‘does not give a toss about his opinion’ and that she was ashamed to be in the same industry as him.
