Environment Min framing law on civil penalties ||||
 The Environment Ministry is framing a law on civil penalties providing for both fines and jail terms to deal with offenders of green norms. Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said that besides covering industries and other private entities, the new draft law will have the provision to impose heavy penalties on government agencies, local bodies and state-run institutions. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1ce17fdc-2ba9-49a2-8a1a-f6d0f9dda368-1||||
New Delhi, May 22 (PTI) A stringent law on civil penalties providing for hefty fine and jail term is being framed by the Environment Ministry to deal with offenders of green norms, in sync with its policy of making compliance easy but violations costly.
Giving details of the proposed law, Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said besides covering industries and other private entities, it will have provision to impose heavy penalties on government agencies, local bodies and state-run institutions.
Within the next two weeks, he said, inter-ministerial consultations on the draft law will be over following which it will be placed before the Cabinet for approval.
The main objective of bringing the legislation is to ensure strict enforcement of various environmental norms so that it can be protected effectively. The measure will help deal with the challenge of pollution and waste management, he said, adding the government wants to bring the law as soon as possible.
"The real problem is compliance. In our country, there are many laws and hundreds of rules but compliance is very weak. We must make compliance easy and violation very costly. On that principle, we have drafted the law on civil penalties which will act as deterrent as it will have provisions for heavy penalty against violators," Javadekar told PTI in an interview.
The Environment Minister said the new draft law will provide for both financial penalties and jail term for the violators. 	"There will be financial penalties and provisions of jail. Earlier laws also had such provisions but they were very weak. We are revising them as per current situation," he said.
Javadekar said his Ministry has recently come out with six new waste management rules including solid waste management norms.
