Will suggest CBI probe in boy's death: Sisodia ||||
 Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia today said that the AAP government will recommend a CBI probe into the 6-year-old Ryan International School boy's death. Earlier, the boy's father had met local leaders and complained about how the police had not sought his version of the story. The boy's father had alleged on Saturday that his son was abused and murdered. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/48395492-0012-0002-0324-000012345678||||
Parents of six-year-old Devansh Kakrora, a Class I student of Ryan International School who ‘drowned’ in a water tank at the school premises, have sought Union HRD Minister Smriti Irani’s intervention for a CBI probe into their child’s death.
In a letter to Irani, the parents alleged a “conspiracy” behind their son’s death and demanded action against the school management. “Devansh’s death was too suspicious and the reasons have still not been cleared by school authorities… Being a father, I just request you to please try to hand over this case to CBI so that proper investigation can be done in this case, otherwise I know this case would be suppressed by the school administration,” the child’s father, Ramheet Meena, said in the letter to Irani. “Hoping for justice for my child through your cooperation, I also demand action against the school management,” he added. A copy of the letter was also sent to the Prime Minister’s Office.
Meena had alleged Saturday that Devansh was sexually assaulted before being “killed”. “I saw the body. There were some injury marks and cotton on his private parts. The principal has been threatening me since the beginning, saying that keeping quiet will be good for me,” Meena had alleged. “He was killed,” insisted Meena.
A police officer associated with the probe, however, had not appeared convinced with the allegation of sexual assault. “The initial post-mortem findings and investigation so far do not indicate this,” the officer, who did not want to be named, had said. The post-mortem was conducted at AIIMS and preliminary findings pointed to drowning, said a source. “The final report is awaited,” the source added.
Even as Devansh’s parents wrote to Irani, the Delhi government said that would recommend a CBI probe into his death. “We will definitely recommend CBI probe. We can see shortcomings in the ongoing probe. Devansh’s parents have levelled serious allegations,” said Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia.
The deputy CM, who met Devansh’s family last week, had said Saturday that based on the report of magisterial probe ordered by the Delhi government into the case, there were enough indications to suggest it was a “heinous crime”. Probe so far has “ignored” the observations of the child’s parents, he had added.
A senior government official said, “Once Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal returns from Bengaluru, a CBI probe will be recommended after proper consultations.” Devansh was found lying in a water tank under the school’s amphitheatre on January 30.
Barely three days before his death, a nursery student had drowned in an open septic tank at an MCD school in southwest Delhi’s Kapashera.
 
