Tusshar uses surrogacy to father baby boy ||||
 Actor Tusshar Kapoor has become a father to a baby boy through surrogacy using in vitro fertilisation (IVF). The 39-year-old actor will be a single parent to his son, who has been named Laksshya, as he is unmarried. Tusshars parents, Jeetendra and Shobha Kapoor said, "We... are completely supportive of Tusshars decision. This is... an exciting time in our lives." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3d6cbfc4-61eb-4ba4-840b-0f5fffb105c4-1||||
Tusshar Kapoor has become father to a baby boy. The actor – who is unmarried – fathered the new born through surrogacy using IVF. Elated at turning a single parent with the aid of medical technology at Jaslok Hospital in Mumbai, Tusshar is understandably ecstatic and has named the baby Laksshya.
Also read: Parenthood is now an option for many who choose to be single parents, says Tusshar Kapoor
Confirming the development, Tusshar expressed his thanks when we rang him to congratulate him on becoming a dad.
See Pics: Tusshar, Shah Rukh, Aamir: Celebrities Who Opted For surrogacy
Laksshya is the first grandchild of Tusshar’s parents, Jeetendra and Shobha Kapoor. The proud grandparents said in a statement, “We could not be more excited to be grandparents to Laksshya, and are completely supportive of Tusshar’s decision. This is certainly a tremendous blessing, and an exciting time in our lives. Tusshar is a wonderful son, and he has proven, with responsibility, independence and kindness, that he will be a great father to Laksshya.”
Also read: Tusshar Kapoor’s in-flight chat with Prakash Jha inspired him to try surrogacy
Dr Firuza Parikh, Director of IVF and Genetics at the Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre, who led the treatment said, “I am impressed with Tusshar’s determination to be a father. He maintained a keen interest in the baby’s health at every stage. He will surely be a sensitive and nurturing parent. Recently, we have had many single men and women approved for parenthood. As a public figure, Tusshar’s brave and bold decision will open the field of assisted reproduction making it accessible to not just single parents, but also to many who fervently desire to have a baby.”
