Assam govt subsidises price of rice to 2 per kg ||||
 Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi on Friday announced a slew of pro-people measures including an additional subsidy under the National Food Security Act which puts the price of rice at 2 per kg. Gogoi said that the state government will bear the additional one rupee burden per kg. His announcements come four months ahead of the assembly polls in Assam. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/32919454-0011-0001-4556-000012345678||||
With hardly four months left for the Assembly election, Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi Friday announced that his government would provide rice at Rs 2 per kg to over two crore people under the National Food Security Act, with the state bearing an additional Re 1 subsidy on the central government’s rate.
“While we are supposed to provide rice at Rs 3 per kg under the National Food Security Act, we will give rice at Rs 2 per kg, with the state government bearing the additional one rupee burden per kg,” Gogoi said.
The chief minister, who exuded confidence that the Congress would win fourth time in a row, also announced several other schemes with the election in mind. It included raising daily wage of Assam Tea Corporation’s plantation labourers to Rs 177, a new pension scheme for anganwadi workers and helpers, ASHA workers, Home Guard personnel and gaonburras, and old-age pension to all BPL citizens above 60 years of age.
“We will also provide free uniform to all students from BPL families up to Class X, set up coaching centres for competitive exams in all district headquarters and provide wifi connectivity in all colleges, and create 75,000 new posts in the new year,” Gogoi said.
He also announced setting up development councils for Brahmins and Kayasthas as also for a small Muslim community called Jolha in line with similar development councils already created for at least 23 different communities in the past few years. Also, autonomous councils for those Bodo tribals who are domiciled outside the Bodoland Territorial Autonomous Council are on the anvil.
