Ramdev chooses not to attend conference at JNU ||||
 The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) administration said on Monday that Yoga guru Baba Ramdev will not be part of the 22nd International Vedanta Congress at the university as a keynote speaker. An organiser of the conference said Ramdev had expressed hope to attend the conference next year. Notably, JNU student groups on Sunday protested against the invitation extended to Ramdev. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/73789245-0007-0012-3924-000012345678||||
Yoga guru Ramdev will not attend the 22nd International Vedanta Congress at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), the varsity administration confirmed Monday, a day after student groups opposed the invitation to him.
There was no official word on whether Ramdev’s inability to be the keynote speaker at the valedictory ceremony of the four-day event (December 27-30) was related to the opposition by student groups.
“We had invited Baba Ramdev because of what he does, and his involvement with ayurveda is closely associated with the theme of the conference. We had extended an invitation, but did not receive a confirmation. We got a message in the morning from his side that he would be unable to make it to the conference this year, and hopes to be there next year,” said Girish Jha from the Special Centre for Sanskrit Studies, a co-organiser of the conference.
Jha, however, expressed displeasure at the student groups’ opposition to Ramdev being invited.
“It is not fair. As organisers, we should have the freedom to decide who we want to invite. This is not the way at all,” he said.
On Sunday, JNU Students’ Union vice president, Shehla Rashid, had said, “The silent right-wing onslaught on JNU continues. It is very unfortunate to know that the Jawaharlal Nehru University… has allowed “Baba” Ramdev to be invited as a keynote speaker…”
Student bodies had urged the administration and other organisers of the conference to cancel the keynote address on the concluding day and warned of possible agitation if Ramdev’s name was not withdrawn.
