Suspended JD(U) MLC sent to judicial custody ||||
 Suspended JD(U) MLC Manorama Devi was sent to 14-day judicial custody on Tuesday after she surrendered before a Gaya court in a liquor prohibition case. An arrest warrant was earlier issued against her over the same. Police had seized liquor bottles from her house while searching for her son Rocky Yadav, who is currently under arrest for killing a youth. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/036622ed-f7ce-4bba-9005-67d86d5291c6-1||||
Suspended JD(U) MLC Manorama Devi, mother of main accused Rocky in the murder of a Gaya youth, surrendered before a Gaya court Tuesday. She was remanded to 14-day judicial custody. The MLC had been on the run after being booked for excise law violation over liquor bottles purportedly seized from her AP Colony house.
On her way to the court, Manorama Devi told reporters: “Do you think I drink? I was the one who cooperated with the police during the raid. No liquor bottles were seized from my house. If bottles were seized, why didn’t police arrest me then? The case against me is an afterthought…it’s meant to frame me.”
The MLC also sought to know if the Bihar Police had sealed premises of all those accused of violating the state’s liquor ban. “Police are doing an excess in name of liquor law,” she alleged.
While Rocky and his father, Bindi, face charges in the road rage case, Manorama faces an excise case. She has already been suspended by the JD(U).
Meanwhile, victim Aditya Sachdeva’s family said they were unhappy with the slow pace of the investigation. “We are also apprehensive of evidence getting tampered with or destroyed”, said Rajiv Sachdeva, Aditya’s uncle. The family was given two armed guards for security after they complained about receiving veiled threats.
Aditya, a class XII student, was shot dead, allegedly by Rocky Yadav, on the evening of May 7 after the car in which he was travelling overtook the SUV of the MLC’s son.
On Tuesday, the Gaya police had secured two-day remand of Rocky’s cousin, Teni Yadav. Teni was reportedly the third person, besides bodyguard Rajesh Ram, travelling in the SUV on day of the incident. So far, the police have refused to buy Rocky and Teni’s version that they were not present at the scene of crime.
