Kejriwal may be 1st Indian CM at Madame Tussauds ||||
 According to The Indian Express, the India partner of Madame Tussauds has asked AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal to be an esteemed waxwork figure at their upcoming museum in Delhi. Kejriwal will be the first Indian Chief Minister to have a statue at the Madame Tussauds wax museum if he agrees. The museum is expected to open in Delhi next year. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/35174744-0007-0001-7755-000012345678||||
Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal may be inimitable, but now he may get a double — in wax.
Sources told The Indian Express that the India partner of London’s Madame Tussauds, which is set to open in Delhi next year, wrote to Kejriwal on January 11, requesting him to accept its invitation “to be an esteemed waxwork figure at the new attraction in Delhi”.
If Kejriwal accepts the invitation from Wizcraft Entertainment International (WEI), he is likely to be the first Indian chief minister to be replicated in wax by the iconic museum of life-size replicas.
Keystrokes: Kejriwal Follows Modi To Madame Tussauds

Although the museum’s foray in India is a year away, sources said the London-based creative team of Madame Tussauds is expected to be in Delhi for a sitting with Kejriwal early in February.
The museum, which is located in 20 cities across Europe, USA, Asia and Australia, includes the wax statues of Mahatma Gandhi, Indira Gandhi, Amitabh Bachchan, Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Aishwarya Rai, Kareena Kapoor, Madhuri Dixit, Hrithik Roshan and Sachin Tendulkar.
Writing to Kejriwal “For and on behalf of Madame Tussauds”, WEI stated that the life-sized wax figure of the Aam Aadmi Party chief will travel to the global locations of Madame Tussauds as a part of its collection.
Urging Kejriwal to “accept to join the family of world famous icons, heroes and celebrities already chosen for Madame Tussauds Delhi”, WEI stated that the museum wanted to honour Kejriwal for his “astounding work in the political sphere of India”.
Sources said WEI wrote to Kejriwal that the Madame Tussauds museum in Delhi will be one of the largest in the region and a “celebration of the greatest people of our country and internationally from their respective fields”.
Government sources confirmed that they had been approached by WEI and Madame Tussauds.
Delhi Culture Minister Kapil Mishra said, “Madame Tussauds will be among a number of tourist attractions that will be coming to Delhi. People would like to see a wax statue of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.”
When contacted, WEI director Andre Timmins said, “Madame Tussauds will definitely come to Delhi in 2017.”
While the museum will procure land for its venture privately, it will be given the required licences and permissions by the Delhi government, sources said.
