Bihar road rage: JD(U) MLC's son Rocky arrested ||||
 Rocky Yadav, son of JD(U) MLC Manorama Devi, was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly shooting and killing a youth for overtaking his car. Police officials said Rocky had been arrested from his fathers mixer plant and added that his gun was recovered. This comes a day after the MLC's husband and bodyguard were remanded to 14 days of judicial custody. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1df8dbfd-bc41-4a2d-a8fa-77f3bed436e6-1||||
Gaya Police Tuesday arrested Rakesh Ranjan Yadav alias Rocky, son of JD(U) MLC Manorama Devi, in connection with the murder of a youth Saturday evening.
A Beretta pistol, which the police said was used to commit the crime and was registered in Rocky’s name, has also been recovered. In Delhi, investigators discovered that Rocky got the arms licence from the Delhi Police’s licensing unit, which has now started the process of cancelling the licence.
“The licence was issued in 2013 on the grounds of protection and sports quota since Rocky is a sportsman. His licence has an all-India permit and he had given his address as Vasant Kunj,” DCP (licensing) Suvashish Choudhary told The Indian Express. “We have started collecting details of the case from police officers concerned in Bihar as it is mandatory before starting the cancellation proceedings,” he said.
In Gaya, police said that Rocky, arrested from a dairy farm in Bodhgaya, has “confessed to the crime and corroborated the sequence of events”. But when the 25-year-old was produced before the media, he said, “I was in Delhi and was called here by my mother.”
READ: Of a local strongman and his ‘gun-loving’ son
A court in Gaya sent him to 14-day judicial custody.
Rocky is alleged to have shot dead 18-year-old Aditya Sachdeva following a row over overtaking on the Bodhgaya-Gaya road. He had been absconding since the incident. “We had been getting information from various sources. Our team had also been talking to Manorama Devi. We raided several places, including the MLC’s dairy farm in Bodhgaya, where we found Rocky as well as the weapon,” Gaya SSP Garima Malik said. The pistol was loaded and there was an extra magazine with it, she said.
Malik said Rocky had confessed that he “fired at the (victim’s) car” following a row over overtaking. Asked why Rajesh Kumar, the bodyguard assigned to Manorama Devi, was travelling with Rocky, she said, “We are still in the process of investigation.” Kumar and Rocky’s father Bindi Yadav were arrested on Sunday. Police said they are looking for another person who was in Rocky’s car at the time of the incident.
The SSP said they are trying to ascertain if Rocky changed “hiding places” and if he had help from any family member, including his mother. Manorama Devi, who was questioned on Monday night regarding Rocky’s whereabouts, was suspended by the JD(U) on Tuesday.
Aditya’s family, meanwhile, hoped the arrest would lead to “prompt justice”. Appealing to the Chief Minister, his father, Shyam Sunder Sachdeva, said, “Nitish Kumar, if you are serious about getting us justice, please complete a trial in 15 days. Procedural delay will make Rocky and his father stronger and nothing will happen.”
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
