'Captain America...' mints 11.85 cr on 1st day ||||
 'Captain America: Civil War', which released on Friday, collected 11.85 crore on its opening day in India. As per Bollywood trade analyst Taran Adarsh, the film collected 8.53 crore at the ticket window itself. Notably, the Hollywood film has beaten the opening day collections for 'Traffic', 'One Night Stand' and '1920 London', the three Bollywood releases this week. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/6ea2267e-b95a-48ec-8cd6-688428dad811-1||||
Captain America: Civil War, which released on May 6, has received immense response from the Indian audiences and is all set to have a terrific weekend at the box office. The movie, which opened to packed houses at the multiplexes, has collected a whopping amount of Rs. 8.53 crore at the ticket window on Friday, showing a slight growth in the number on the second day by collecting Rs. 8.79 crore on Saturday, taking the total gross collections to Rs. 24.05 crore. (Captain America: Civil War movie review)
Despite three Bollywood releases on the same day – Manoj Bajpayee’s Traffic, Sunny Leone’s One Night Stand and Sharman Joshi’s 1920 London – Hollywood’s flick Captain America: Civil War has once again dominated the Indian box office and has emerged as the clear winner at the box office battle.
Bollywood trade analyst Taran Adarsh took to Twitter to share the first day collections of Captain America: Civil War.
#CaptainAmericaCivilWar is all set for a TERRIFIC weekend… Fri 8.53 cr, Sat 8.79 cr. Total: ₹ 17.32 cr nett. India biz. Gross: ₹ 24.05 cr.
— taran adarsh (@taran_adarsh) May 8, 2016
Marvel’s latest superhero offering delighted viewers on multiple counts. Everyone unanimously lauded the super VFX laced stunts, the storyline and the performances of the lead actors. While Captain America did delight his fans, the other superhero who almost stole the show was Spiderman who many raved about. (Captain America: Civil War dazzles on Day One, Watch audience review)


Directed by Anthony and Joe Russo, Captain America: Civil War features an ensemble cast that includes Chris Evans, Robert Downey Jr., Scarlett Johansson, Sebastian Stan, Anthony Mackie, Don Cheadle, Jeremy Renner, Chadwick Boseman, Paul Bettany, Elizabeth Olsen, Paul Rudd, Emily VanCamp, Tom Holland, Frank Grillo, William Hurt and Daniel Bruhl.
Entertainment Videos by Indian Express
