Army gets India-made Dhanush guns for user trial ||||
 Three indigenously-developed 155 mm 'Dhanush' artillery guns have been handed over to the Indian Army for user trial by the Jabalpur-based Gun Carriage Factory, officials said on Sunday. Dhanush, a howitzer with a strike range of 38 km, has been developed using the design documents delivered to India as part of the Bofors gun deal, another official said. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/28c3c882-103e-497e-b2ef-226226b9daeb-1||||
Bhopal, Jul 17 (PTI) Three indigenously-developed 155 mm 'Dhanush' artillery guns have been handed over to the Indian Army by the Jabalpur-based Gun Carriage Factory (GCF).
"Three 155 mm howitzers (Dhanush) have been handed over to the army recently for user's trial," GCF's Joint General Manager and PRO Sanjay Shrivastava told PTI today.
GCF is an ordnance factory, which received its first order of 500 transport carts in 1905.
"Another consignment of three guns is being readied and these howitzers too will be delivered to the army shortly," Shrivastava said.
The gun, a towed howitzer with a strike range of 38 km, has been developed by Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), Kolkata, after going through the design and voluminous documents running into over 12,000 pages which were delivered to India under the first phase of Transfer of Technology (ToT) as part of the Bofors gun deal in the late 80s, another official said.
The army had demanded the six howitzers following successful summer and winter trials of the artillery gun.
The trials saw some 2,000 rounds being successfully fired from the gun in different climatic conditions like in snowy, desert and hostile areas in the country, he said.
The army had been looking for a total of 114 Dhanush guns from GCF to augment its firepower, he further said.
According to the official, the army needs a huge number of howitzers of different types, and Indian firms, some with the help of foreign manufacturers, are in the race to fulfil the demand with the gun's variants.
Costing around Rs 14 crore a piece, Dhanush, (aka 'Desi Bofors') is comparable to most current generation weapon systems which are in use by different countries, he said.
Along with electronic gun-laying and sighting systems and other features, the indigenous gun has an enhanced 11-km range as against the 27-km range of the imported Bofors.
