MP minister offers selfie scheme to collect fund ||||
 Inspired by Queen Elizabeth II's daughter Anne, Madhya Pradesh minister Kunwar Vijay Shah has offered people of his constituency to click selfies with him for 10 which will be utilised for building a tribal old age home. Shah, a tribal royal of Makrai, said the scheme is limited to Harsud constituency and he wants to capitalise on the selfie craze. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/22741828-0012-0012-1806-000012345678||||
Taking a cue from the daughter of Queen Elizabeth II, Madhya Pradesh Food and Civil Supplies Minister, Kunwar Vijay Shah has offered people of his constituency to take selfies with him by paying a small sum of Rs 10 for a cause.
The Minister, in a statement said that he was informed that a prescribed amount is taken for snapping photograph and shaking hands with the Queen’s daughter Princess Anne. The funds collected thus are spent on social work in Britain.
Inspired, Shah who is an erstwhile tribal royal of Makrai too, has made this offer to the people of his Harsud constituency which he says will be utilised for the proposed Tribal Old Age Home to be opened next year there.
However, Shah clarified that those who were unable to pay it are also welcome to take selfie with him, it said.
The Minister has made it clear that the scheme to take selfie with him at a cost Rs 10 is confined only to his Harsud assembly constituency in Khandwa district.
“Only those capable can give Rs 10 are welcome to do so, but those unable to give this amount will also not be stopped from taking a selfie with him,” it said.
Shah said that the amount given voluntary by people on taking selfie with him would be used in Tribal Old Age Home to be opened in April next year in his constituency.
He said that funds from other sources are also being collected for the purpose.
The Minister said that he wished to open a Tribal Old Age Home in his assembly constituency through public cooperation, and since the craze of taking selfies is on a rise among people in recent times, funds for social work can also be collected through this mode.
However, the Minister has further clarified that this concept is still under consideration and he will take a final call on the issue after meeting his constituents.
