Rajasthan: Maternal care mobile service launched ||||
 Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje on Thursday launched mMitra, a mobile voice message service that delivers weekly messages to families about pregnancy, family planning, nutrition, childbirth, and maternal and child care. As per reports, the service will initially operate in 195 villages in Khanpur block of Jhalawar district on a pilot basis, with a scale-up across the district soon. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/9be530ef-312f-40e4-bb8e-f9a6641d284f-1||||
Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje on Thursday launched mMitra, a mobile voice message service that delivers weekly messages to families about pregnancy, family planning, nutrition, childbirth and maternal and child care. The service was inaugurated in Jhalawar.
“mMitra is a free mobile voice call service (providing) culturally appropriate comprehensive information on preventive care and simple interventions to reduce maternal and infant mortality and morbidity. The voice calls are in Hindi, specific to the woman’s gestational age or the age of the infant and are sent weekly or twice a week,” Raje said while launching the service.
The service will initially operate in 195 villages in Khanpur block of Jhalawar district on a pilot basis, with a scale-up across the district likely soon.
The technology is being launched through the Akshada programme in partnership with Arrman, a Mumbai based not-profit organisation.
The beneficiaries for the mMitra calls are to be registered through the Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM). Over 1,000 women have already been registered. In all, 145 free audio messages in Hindi, each of about two-minute duration, will reach the targeted beneficiaries from two months of pregnancy until the child turns a year old.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
“The mMitra technology has the potential to save hundreds of lives in distant villages,” said Ashok Alexander, founder and director of Antara Foundation.
The Akshada programme focuses on the crucial initial 1,000 days of a child, from conception till the age two, and includes the most critical indicators like maternal anaemia, neonatal mortality and improving immunisation.
