Have to love the story to choose a film: Aamir ||||
 Actor Aamir Khan has said that when it comes to choosing a film, he has to love the story and it needs to speak to him. He added that he initially refused to do 'Dangal' but agreed as he could not get the script out of his head. Further, Aamir revealed that he hates being called a "method actor". ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/00d0a865-3dda-4dfe-8276-2e3d8347e007-1||||
Aamir Khan is taking every opportunity to interact with the press these days, and that can only mean one thing. He has a film coming out. Talking to a leading publication, when asked about his method of choosing projects, Aamir replied with, "I just have to love the story yaar, it has to speak to me."
ALSO READ: "Was I ready to play a 55-year old in Dangal?" Aamir Khan asked himself
The Ghajini actor said doing the film was a decision he took after careful consideration. Having done Dhoom 3 and PK, Aamir felt he was in the best shape of his life, with his body fat at a mere 9 percent. Did he really want to play the role of an aging Haryanvi wrestler with grey hair and a pot-belly? Not quite at first, but then as Aamir puts it, "But I couldn't get the script out of my head, so I made Nitesh (Tiwari) narrate it to me a third time after eight months, and I decided I just want to do it yaar."
The actor insisted he hates the tag of a 'method actor'. Aamir claims never to have gone to an acting school, instead he says all he has learned is by observing the process of filmmaking. He states how between the age of 7 to 15, he heard hundreds of stories that writers used to come to pitch to his producer father. ALSO READ: When Kiran Rao kept Aamir Khan up all night
Aamir Khan also joked with director Nitesh Tiwari, that if he died between schedules of Dangal, he would have to cast a Ranveer, Ranbir to play the younger version of Mahavir Phogat. The film would still be fine.
Dangal is based on the life of wrestler Mahavir Phogat, who trained his daughters to go on and win medals at Commonwealth Games. The film is slated for a December release, which has seen some of Aamir Khan's biggest hits including Dhoom 3 and PK.
