Bihar to ban countrymade liquor in the 1st phase ||||
 Bihar government on Friday clarified that "only countrymade liquor" would be banned in the first phase of the proposed ban starting April 2016. Excise Minister Jalil Mastan added that Bihar State Beverages Corporation Limited (BSBCL) is planning to open a retail liquor shop as per policy and the government is committed to the ban and might consider foreign liquor too. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/08665954-0007-0012-2641-000012345678||||
Bihar Excise Minister Jalil Mastan on Friday cleared the air on the proposed liquor ban in the state from April 1, 2016, and said only countrymade liquor would be banned in the “first phase”. Former Chief Minister and RJD legislature party leader Rabri Devi echoed the minister and said only countrymade liquor would be banned from the coming financial year.
The excise minister said, “Bihar State Beverages Corporation Limited (BSBCL) is planning to open retail liquor shop as per the new liquor policy. But we are committed to the liquor ban. In the first phase, countrymade liquor would be banned. We would also ban foreign liquor in the second phase, most probably from September 2016.”
But the Opposition BJP criticised the Nitish Kumar government for its ambivalence on the proposed ban with the government’s corporation (BSBCL) inviting tenders to lease shops to sell foreign liquor.
The confusion began when the excise minister said “there is no such thing as partial ban of liquor”, even as Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had talked only of a new liquor policy and had not committed to a complete or partial ban from the coming financial year.
BJP legislature party leader and former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi alleged that “the government’s ambivalence was reflective of two power centres in the government”.
With the BJP attributing it to “two power centres (Lalu Prasad and Nitish Kumar)”, RJD leader and former CM Rabri Devi also sought to clear the air by saying that only countrymade liquor would be banned from the coming year.
The Bihar government has come under fresh attack after the excise commissioner’s office on December 15 wrote to officials in the state capital and at the district level to seek availability of shops on lease. The government has also specified that the size of a shop should not be less than 300 square feet.
Though there is no final word yet on a new liquor policy, government sources said the government-run BSBCL might open retail shops in the districts to sell only foreign liquor but in limited numbers. The 2007 liquor policy had paved the way for opening of liquor shops at panchayat levels and also its easy availability at small provision shops.
During an informal interaction with the media during a recent Assembly session, CM Nitish Kumar had said the new liquor policy is “open-ended”, as officials have been asked to study all pros and cons, including the possibility of of sale of illicit liquor and its manufacturing. The CM had faintly hinted at a ban on only countrymade liquor.
