Acid attack on girl by jilted lover in Gujarat ||||
 An 18-year-old girl suffered 95% burn injuries on her face and her right eye was permanently damaged after a 21-year-old boy threw acid on her face in Mehsana, Gujarat on Monday. The boy has been accused of harassing her for months and unrequited love reportedly seems to have emerged as the reason behind the attack. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/16053089-0012-0002-9494-000012345678||||
In a gruesome case of acid attack in Mehsana town, on Monday, a 21-year-old boy threw acid on the face of an 18-year-old girl near the gate of her college in Nagalpur locality. With her right eye permanently damaged and 95 per cent burn injuries on her face, the girl has been shifted to Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. Police have arrested the accused and primarily unrequited love has come out as the reason behind the attack.
The accused has been identified as Hardik Prajapati, a resident of Shaikhpura village near Vadnagar of Mehsana district. The victim girl, a resident of Ramosana locality of Mehsana, is a first year student of commerce at the Nagalpur Commerce College whereas, the boy is an engineering student.
According to Mehsana Superintendent of Police, Chaitanya Mandalik, “The incident happened outside the gate of the college at around 9.45 am. The accused is a relative of the victim (brother of her sister-in-law) and he had been harassing her for the past some time. The girl had refused the accused’s proposal following which the harassment had increased in the past two months.”
“We have arrested the accused under the newly amended Section 326 (A) of the IPC – voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid – in which the maximum punishment is life imprisonment,” Mandalik added.
The Mehsana SP said that the girl seems to have lost her right eye whereas, 95 per cent of her face has sustained burn injuries along with other body parts like chest, shoulder and legs. “She is conscious, but it is too early to say if she is out of danger,” the SP added.
Mandalik said that they were planning to record statements of the victim and other witnesses under section 164 of CrPC to make the case full-proof.
“We have taken the case very seriously, and are going to seek appointment of a Special Public Prosecutor for its criminal trial along with a special fast track court to finish the trial at the earliest. The government is also considering to award compensation to the victim,” Mandalik said.
