Centre must fulfil the Agenda of Alliance: Mufti ||||
 Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday asked the Centre to take more substantive measures to fulfil the promises made in the Agenda of Alliance. Mufti Saab was a visionary leader. He joined hands with the Prime Minister... It is now our collective responsibility to implement it and fulfil the promises made with the people, she said. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1957ee11-68c6-4b58-bcaf-b223e4e1e52c-1||||
Stating that people have huge expectations from the coalition government in the state, Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister, Mehbooba Mufti, on Sunday asked the Centre to take more substantive measures in fulfilling the promises made in the Agenda of Alliance.
She said her father took a tough but well-thought out decision, as he saw a historic opportunity to break new ground in bringing the people from the three distinct regions of the state closer to each other.
“Mufti Saab was a visionary leader. He joined hands with the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, after two months of sustained discussions which resulted in the formation of the Agenda of Alliance. It is now our collective responsibility to implement it and fulfill the promises made with the people of the state,” she said, while stressing upon building a reconciliatory environment.
The Chief Minister made these observations while addressing gatherings at Rajouri district of Jammu after laying the foundation stone new medical colleges in the state.
Union Health and Family Welfare Minister, J P Nadda, Union Minister of State in the PMO, Jitendra Singh, were also present on the occasion. Describing the Agenda of Alliance as the fulcrum on which the coalition government rests, the Chief Minister said after the accession there has been a trail of “un-kept” promises with the people of the state, made by both the State as well as Central leaders.
This, she claimed has led to loss of faith among the masses, more so in mainstream leaders. “Lot of dreams were sold to the people during the last so many decades without fulfilling any one of them. It was a fortunate coincidence that Mufti Mohammad Sayeed got an opportunity to serve the state as the Chief Minister from 2002 to 2005 while Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister of India,” she said.
Mehbooba Mufti observed that both the leaders understood the sensitivities of the state and came up with a very humane response to the problem, which included ceasefire agreements, bringing down human rights violations and opening of new routes across the LoC.
She said these steps created a feel-good factor, which unfortunately were not consolidated by the successive governments that followed. “This time, people have again reposed trust and hope in the Coalition Government,” she stated.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
ww.youtube.com/watch?v=videoseries?list=PLrDg7LoYgk9wv_QK-mHWFxTf8Y52LVsNB]
