650 crore sanctioned to decongest Delhi traffic ||||
 Union Urban Development Minister Venkaiah Naidu on Monday announced the sanctioning of over 650 crore for five projects to decongest traffic in Delhi. The projects include construction of flyovers, underpasses, foot-over bridges, and widening of roads. Naidu said that the amount has been approved under the Urban Development Fund (UDF), which is utilised for building infrastructure in the city. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/36084de3-118c-4bf8-8f17-cd5a233bd5b1-1||||
New Delhi, Jul 11 (PTI) To decongest traffic in Delhi, Union Minister Venkaiah Naidu today announced sanctioning of over Rs 650 crore for five projects, including construction of flyover and underpasses connecting northern Mahipalpur, Aerocity, airport and National Highway 8.
Rs 658 has been approved under the Urban Development Fund (UDF), he said while announcing the projects.
UDF, which is sourced from one-time charges for conversion of properties leased by DDA from leasehold to freehold, is utilised for building infrastructures in Delhi with priority for measures to decongest the national capital.
Flyover and underpass will be constructed between northern parts of Mahipalpur Bypass Road and Airport Road near Hanuman Road, a release said.
"This will provide direct access to the airport for those coming from south Delhi, Faridabad and Gurgaon side and vice versa. This will ease the frequent jams on NH-8 and provide hassle-free access to the airport via Aerocity by crossing NH-8," it said.
The cost of this project is around Rs 188 crore, out of which Rs 150.40 crore has been approved under UDF.
Construction of flyover-cum-road over-bridge near Narela for providing direct access from NH-1 to Bawana Industrial Complex has also been approved. The cost of this project is Rs 437.21 core out of which Rs 349.77 crore would come from UDF.
Construction of skywalk and foot-overbridge near ITO has been approved and Rs 43.47 crore, out of the total cost of Rs 54.34 crore, will come from UDF.
Widening of road, construction of up-ramp and improvement of ring road from ISBT Kashmiri Gate and Salimgarh Bypass has also been sanctioned with Rs 14.94 crore to be given from UDF. The total cost of this project is Rs 18.68 crore.
"These will reduce congestion near Kashmiri Gate and Nigam Bodh Ghat," the release said.
