African national beaten to death in Delhi ||||
 MT Olivia, a 23-year-old Congolese national, was allegedly beaten to death in Delhis Vasant Kunj area on Friday night. According to the police, the victim got into a fight with three men and was chased for 20 metres before reportedly getting beaten up with stones and bricks. The police registered a case of murder and detained one suspect on Saturday. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/48c4360d-8413-4b57-a92c-32afc2a2359a-1||||
A 23-year-old Congolese ‎national was beaten to death in South Delhi’s Vasant Kunj area. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the incident occurred in Kishangarh area where he came to meet his friend.
The Delhi police has detained one suspect Saturday morning and also trying to get some crucial evidence after scanning the CCTV footage installed in a nearby localities. The suspects, could be locals, police sources said.
Read details | Minutes before birthday, man from Congo beaten to death in Vasant Kunj
According to police, the victim identified as M T Oliva and was on his way home when apparently he had an argument with some men. “The incident came to light at around 11.55 pm and the eyewitnesses told the police that the victim was chased for 20 meters and then beaten up by the assailants. He had injuries on his head and face,” a senior police officers said.
Read | Congo man beaten to death: He came to Delhi looking for a better life 
Investigators said that the suspects reportedly hit him with stones and bricks lying around. “He was later taken to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. The body has been sent for postmortem,” the officer added.
WATCH VIDEO | Govt Steps In As African Envoys Allege Racism

“A case of murder has been registered. We are checking CCTV footage to identify the accused,” additional DCP (South) Nupur Prasad said.
What exactly led to the argument between Olivia and the group is yet to be ascertained. The case is being probed from all angles including robbery and a possible racist attack on the African national.
The Embassy of Congo has been informed about the incident.
Olivia taught foreign languages at a private institute. He lived in South Extension area.
It was another group of locals who rescued Olivia and called up police. He was rushed to a hospital, where he later succumbed to his injuries.
The locals, however, could not identify the perpetrators or say what had led to the incident. Investigation is underway, police added.
With inputs from PTI
