Centre responsible for Kashmir unrest: JD(U) ||||
 Janata Dal (United) national spokesperson KC Tyagi on Friday said that the Centres lack of farsightedness was to be blamed for the deteriorating situation in Jammu and Kashmir. Claiming that Pakistan was taking advantage of the situation, Tyagi added, "If given any more space, the situation may become worse and will give Pakistan an opportunity to further comment on." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/62f0d608-0f49-4c46-b4dd-38df45410948-1||||
Blaming the Centre’s lack of farsightedness for the deteriorating situation in Kashmir of which Pakistan is taking advantage, Janata Dal (United) national spokesperson K C Tyagi on Friday said if given any more space, the situation might turn worse giving Pakistan further opportunity to cash in on it.
“Centre’s lack of farsightedness is to blame for the deteriorating situation in Kashmir, of which the neighbouring country Pakistan is taking advantage. If given any more space, the situation may become worse and will give Pakistan an opportunity to further comment on,” Tyagi told ANI.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
Commenting on India’s Permanent Representative Syed Akbaruddin remarks on Pakistan, he said, “I agree with Indian’s Representative’s remarks that Pakistan is exporting terrorism through tour, and is responsible for the upswing in violence.”
He said Pakistan is taking advantage of the Kashmir situation, and thus, the Indian government must be conscious about it.
Talking about controversial Islamic Zakir Naik, he preacher “Zakir is infamous for his aggressive and provocative statements, he doesn’t have any space left except for jail and does not sympathise with Muslims,” he said.
“I Welcome Venkaih Naidu’s progressive approach, where they held talks and enrolled the opposition parties to pass GST, JD(U) has already extended its support in favour of GST,” he said.
Talking about black money, he said, “Even after SIT submitting its fifth report on black money case, the centre has failed to initiate any action.”
Welcoming the release of Hardik Patel, Tyagi said, “Several people from patel community died because of Gujarat’s government ruthlessness and because of this unemployment and law and order situation in Gujarat was also surfaced.”
