Seer panel submits report on Kairana exodus ||||
 A five-member delegation of seers on Friday submitted its report on the alleged Kairana exodus of Hindu families to Uttar Pradesh Governor Ram Naik. The delegation said 160 Muslim families had also left Kairana over a period of 10 years along with Hindus. The report has also indicted BJP MP Hukum Singh, who had earlier highlighted the exodus. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1b08c277-52eb-4667-873e-5ac095225e8a-1||||
A five-member delegation of seers, led by Acharya Pramod Krishnam, Friday submitted its report on the alleged Kairana “exodus” to Governor Ram Naik, a day after it handed over a copy to Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav.
Sources informed that the Governor took a strong note of the contents of the report getting released in media before reaching him. Naik also asked the delegation members if they had met and taken views of the public representatives or members of political parties “before indicting them”. He also asked the delegation to clarify whether they were sent to Kairana in Shamli district of western Uttar Pradesh by the state government or by the ruling Samajwadi Party.
“The Governor sought clarification on whether we were sent by the Samajwadi Party or the state government. We told them that we were sent by the state government. There was an official letter, which had gone to the District Magistrate,” claimed Krishnam.
Watch Video: What's making news
However, there was no clarification from the government about how the delegation, which also had Swami Kalyan Dev, Naraina Giri, Swami Chinmayanand and Swamy Chakrapani as its members, was sent to Kairana.
A Raj Bhavan spokesperson confirmed that Governor asked the seers if they had taken the statements of public representatives before finalising the report. “The delegation informed that they did not take statement of any public representatives before finalising their report,” the spokesperson said.
Krishnam told Naik that they interacted with the common people in Kairana to ascertain the facts related to the alleged exodus of Hindus.
In their report, the panel had indicted local BJP MP Hukum Singh, along with local SP MLA Nahid Hassan and SP MLC Virendra Singh. The delegation had also pointed out that along with Hindus, 160 Muslim families too had left Kairana over a period of 10 years. The panel had sought detailed investigation and recommended imposing of NSA against those giving hate speeches.
Sources informed that the delegation told the Governor that there was an “exodus” but not because of fear of Muslims. They also told Naik that they had submitted a copy of the report to the CM, but had not shared the content with the media.
After submitting the report, the seers left Lucknow in a train even as three of them alleged to have received threatening calls from different mobile numbers.
Speaking to The Indian Express over phone, Krishnam said will stop at Ghaziabad to lodge an FIR in this regard.
“I, Swami Kalyan Dev and Chakrapani ji got threatening calls from different mobile numbers within a gap of few minutes. The callers abused us and issued life threats saying that we have submitted report, which was against Hindutva and all of us would have to pay with our lives. We immediately informed the police and gave them these numbers. We are going to lodge an FIR in Ghaziabad as well,” Krishnam said, adding that he got the call at 6:14 pm.
He further said that the team wants to clarify “that we have reported only what we saw and heard” from the local people. “However, these calls have proven the fact that the very list floated by certain leaders was an attempt to disturb the communal harmony of the state, which is being threatened now,” he added.
The Governor is also likely to seek clarification from the Government on the loopholes in the report as well as the official process adopted for sending the delegation.
Earlier, state PWD Minister and senior SP leader Shivpal Yadav had announced the formation of the team on June 17 stating that these were “apolitical” people who will present an “unbiased” picture.
