Cong attacks Parrikar over 'lesson to actor' remark ||||
 Congress on Sunday criticised Union Minister Manohar Parrikar over his remarks making reference to an actor. The party said that instead of training his guns elsewhere, Parrikar threatens teaching a lesson to actors. Manohar Parrikars statement proves a concerted conspiracy to curb all dissent, hound Dalits and Minorities, said Congress Spokesperson Randeep Surjewala. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d04569a9-d86b-4a12-95b1-9163dd838b19-1||||
Congress MLA Randeep Surjewala slammed the Defence minister Manohar Parrikar for his comments that those who speak against the nation should be punished like an “actor” and an “online company”.
Randeep S Sujrewala in a series of tweets said, “Manohar Parrikar’s statement proves a concerted conspiracy to curb all dissent, hound Dalits and Minorities. Can this be the ‘Raj Dharma’?”
He went on to ask the Defence minister on Twitter about his work responsibilities. “Is Manohar Parrikar job to protect India from external aggressors like Pakistan or threaten fellow countrymen like actor Aamir Khan?”
Describing the actor’s comments as ‘shameful’, Surjewala wrote on Twitter, “Shameful that Manohar Parrikar threatens ‘teaching a lesson’ to ‘actors’, instead of training his guns elsewhere.”
Also Read | ‘Shame on Parrikar’: Twitter reacts to the Defence Minister’s jibe at Aamir Khan
Pointing towards the Defence minster’s declaration that the BJP team asked people to buy products from Snapdeal and then return it back, he said, “Shocking revelation by Manohar Parrikar that BJP supporters actively disrupted, sabotaged Snapdeal on Aamir Khan issue. Scandalous!”
Aamir Khan, in the month of December 2015, at Ramnath Goenka Awards, award function said that he is worried about growing sense of insecurity resulting from rising intolerance in the country. He also mentioned that his wife Kiran Rao is apprehensive about raising a child in India.
Khan, was at that time, the brand ambassador for Snapdeal, an e-commerce giant. Snapdeal, faced a strong backlash on social media, including a reported loss of customers. After a few months, the online company did not renew their contract with the Bollywood filmstar.
Watch | Full Speech of Aamir khan at Ramnath Goenka (RNG) Excellence Awards (2015)
Manohar Parrikar went on to say that his team is very smart and keeps a track of such incidents. He also said that his team asked people to order and return the products, which led the online company to remove the advertisements.
The minister also said that the actor’s statements were very arrogant.
