TRAI slams FB for 'orchestrated opinion poll' ||||
 The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) has criticised Facebook for turning the regulatory body's public consultation on the validity of the zero-rating platform Free Basics into a majoritarian and orchestrated opinion poll. TRAI asked FB whether its users responding to TRAI were making "informed decisions. Earlier, TRAI banned the service over differential pricing for data usage. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/75453808-0007-0001-7284-000012345678||||
Telecom regulator TRAI has written a strongly worded letter to Facebook, slamming the social media giant for the way it ran the campaign to save its zero-rating platform ‘Free Basics’.  The service was banned in India after TRAI issued a paper questioning the validity of differential pricing for some content services by ISPs. Facebook has tied up with Reliance Communications for Free Basics in India.
TRAI’s letter, which can be accessed here says, that Facebook has been silent on whether it had conveyed the full text of the regulator’s message to users who had supported Free Basics. TRAI has specifically requested Facebook to ensure that Free Basics supporters answer the four questions raised in the paper, rather than espouse support for just one platform.
TRAI’s letter reads, “In light of the tangential natures of the responses by the users to the questions asked, the communication of the text was vital to demonstrating and ensuring that those who are responding to TRAI are making informed decisions.” TRAI’s letter adds that despite two specific requests around the same issue, it was reasonable to infer that Facebook had not communicated the full text of TRAI’s message to the users.
Facebook has also issued a statement regarding TRAI’s concern over delivering the message to its users who extended their support to Free Basics and said that over 1.4 million Indians responded with revised comments to address TRAI’s questions and that the company had cooperated with the regulator’s request.
A Facebook spokesperson said, “TRAI requested that we reach out to these Free Basics supporters to ask them to also answer the specific questions raised by the consultative paper. We are not aware of a similar request having been made to any of the other commenters who did not answer these specific questions. Nevertheless, we attempted to cooperate with their request. While we did not include all of the specific language drafted by TRAI, we did deliver a request for additional information and included in the draft email the exact language from the four specific questions posed in the consultation paper. More than 1.4 million Indians responded by submitting revised comments that addressed these questions.”
Watch our video series on Net Neutrality
It has also accused Facebook of reducing a “meaningful consultative exercise designed to produce informed and transparent decisions into a crudely majoritarian and orchestrated opinion poll.”
TRAI goes on to adds that neither the spirit nor the letter of the paper warrants such an interpretation as done by Facebook. The regulator says that if such interpretations are accepted, then it would “have dangerous ramifications for policy-making in India.”


TRAI has also slammed Facebook over what it calls as ‘self-appointed’ spokesmanship on behalf of its users, who have sent a response and adds that Facebook did not get sufficient consent from users when sending out that automated response.
Also see: Nine Indian startup CEOs write to TRAI against zero-rating platforms
In its defence, Facebook has claimed that “someone with access to designated TRAI email account appears to have blocked receipt of all emails from Facebook to that TRAI account.” TRAI has countered this by asking Facebook why it did not raise this concern earlier.
TRAI in its response asks why Facebook did not a formal complaint, if they felt that their email id had been blocked.
The regulator also rejects Facebook’s assertion that the initial template responses sent by users in support of ‘digital equality’ and ‘Free Basics’ are appropriate answers for its paper. TRAI’s letter also notes that Facebook has ignored the fact that the paper is on ‘Differential pricing of content/services by ISPs’ in general, and not about one particular service.
However TRAI has said that this letter should not be taken to mean that they will reject “any relevant responses”, which might have come from any user who used Facebook as a platform. TRAI says they will also keep in mind the comments Facebook has submitted as a stakeholder in the whole debate.
Read the full letter below: 
TRAI Facebook Letter
As per TRAI data, it has received around 24 lakh comments till January 7. Releasing number of responses received through facebookmail.com and supportfreebasics.in, TRAI has said that it received only 1.89 million while Facebook’s claimed the number to be more than 11 million.
Must read: TRAI floats new Consulation paper, lists disadvantages of zero-rating plans
An analysis of a record 24 lakh comments, as disclosed by TRAI, shows that 18.94 lakh replies are in support of Free Basics, of which 13.5 lakh views are through supportfreebasics.in and without the senders individual e-mail IDs while further 5.44 lakh comments have come from facebookmail.com.
On the other hand, the Net Neutrality campaigners have submitted 4.84 lakh comments through forums like Save the Internet. Besides, there are comments from telecom and Internet service providers, industry bodies and individuals.
The telecom operators, including Airtel, Vodafone, Idea, Reliance Communications and their respective associations, have supported differential pricing for data services, while Internet service providers have opposed the plan. “For the growth of data service, price differentiation for data services can be allowed,” operators have submitted.
With PTI inputs
More details: Facebook Free Basics controversy: Here’s where things stand currently
