Don't want any cuts in Raman Raghav 2.0: Kashyap ||||
 Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap has said that he does not want a single cut from the Censor Board in his latest film 'Raman Raghav 2.0. "Censor Board has been... kindest to this film. They actually liked it... To avoid any kind of cuts whatever it will take, we will do," said Kashyap. Starring Nawazuddin Siddiqui, it will release on July 24. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d3b031de-dd2a-443a-807b-3e2e89c53418-1||||
Filmmmaker Anurag Kashyap, who had run-ins with Censor Board on many occasions, said he did not want a single cut in his latest film Raman Raghav 2.0.
The film is inspired by Raman Raghav, also known as Psycho Raman, a serial killer who terrorised the streets of Mumbai in the mid-1960s.
“Censor Board has been in a way kindest to this film. They actually liked it. For me, there are many things in the film I want them to stay intact. I would not be satisfied with a single cut. To avoid any kind of cuts whatever it will take, we will do,” the director told reporters.
The film stars Nawazuddin Siddiqui as the serial killer, while Vicky Kaushal, of “Masaan” fame, plays the role of a cop.
Kashyap said he was not trying to glorify criminals through the film, adding it is merely “inspired” from Raman Raghav and not based on him.


“We are not glorifying. The film is not to glorify someone. You’ll understand it better if you watch the film. It is in a fictionalised, thriller way where we have woven a story around the things we usually ignore,” he said.
“This is not based on a real life character. It is inspired from a character who was in the 1960s, this film is based in today’s times. It’s difficult to make a film inspired by a real life character because you are treading a very dangerous line. You have your own sense of responsibility,” he added.
The “Ugly” director said making a true blue biopic would have been “ten times more difficult” considering the details which go into the making.
“If you are saying a story like this you need to do it in such a way that all the aspects come together to make an engaging film. It is very important to pay minute details in character developments. If it would’ve been a biopic, it would’ve been ten times more difficult,” Kashyap said.
“Raman Raghav 2.0” will be showcased at Cannes’ Directors Fortnight section. The festival will open on May 11.
The film is scheduled to release on June 24.
Entertainment Videos by Indian Express
