'Used social media to make Kamal Nath quit' ||||
 BJP leader Kailash Vijaywargiya on Thursday claimed that he used social media to create a "public outcry" over Kamal Nath's role in 1984 anti-Sikh riots, forcing him to resign as Congress' in-charge of Punjab. He further claimed that BJP had taken its membership to 10 crore by using mobile phones, making it the "largest organisation" in the world. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/f138e953-cf86-4efc-86ff-5e521eb3f689-1||||
Bhopal, June 16 (PTI) A senior BJP leader today claimed social media was used to create a "public outcry" over the "role" of Kamal Nath in 1984 anti-Sikh riots which forced him to quit as the Congress general secretary in-charge of poll-bound Punjab.
"When I was at the BJP executive meeting in Allahabad recently, I got information that Nath has been made AICC general secretary in-charge for Punjab and Haryana. I quickly used social media to touch upon his involvement in anti-Sikh riots of 1984.
"This led to a public outcry against the senior Congress leader forcing him to quit his new job," Kailash Vijaywargiya said while addressing the two-day BJP State executive meeting which began today at Rewa district.
On Sunday, Nath was appointed as General Secretary and given charge of both Punjab and Haryana. He resigned last night as in charge of Punjab, which goes to polls next year, in the wake of rivals targeting him on the issue of riots.
Pushing further his argument on effectiveness of social media, the BJP general secretary said a poor Muslim girl had availed medial treatment after sending just a few words to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
He was referring to the incident last month wherein Tyeba, a resident of Mantola area in Agra, had received medical assistance for her heart treatment after she wrote to PMO.
Asking his partymen to use social media platform to reach to masses, Vijaywargiya said the new communication tool has become a necessity and a means to flourish.
He said that BJP has taken its membership to 10 crore by using mobile phones, making it the "largest organisation" in the world.
Earlier, inaugurating the meet, BJP vice-president and state in-charge Vinay Sahasrabuddhe appealed to the party workers to reach the doorsteps of people to apprise them about the country's "rapid development in last two years under Modi government".
In his address, state unit BJP president Nandkumar Singh Chauhan said the reservation system in its current form will remain as per Constitution.
"No power will be able to end it (reservation). People should not get carried away by the opposition propaganda on the issue," he added.
