'Odd-Even' in Tripura to counter fuel shortage ||||
 Tripura has introduced an Odd-Even system from Thursday wherein petrol stations would provide fuel to odd and even numbered vehicles on alternate days, a senior minister said. This is in addition to the rationing of petrol and diesel to counter extreme fuel shortages due to poor road conditions stopping entry of fuel tankers into the state from Assam, he added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/478104a1-245a-4a3c-8e2d-69c624c822c6-1||||
Tripura has introduced the “Odd-Even” system from Thursday in addition to the rationing of petrol and diesel due to extreme shortages as a result of the poor road condition stopping entry of fuel tanker in the state from Assam, said a senior minister.
Tripura Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bhanulal Saha said “Only 50 percent of the required fuels are reaching our state and due to which we had to go for rationing of petrol. In spite of this we are unable to fulfil the demand and control a section of people who are doing irregularities. Now a new suggestion has come to introduce the supply at filling station on alternate days of odd and even vehicle registration number system. There are around 1lakh 43 thousand bikes in and around Agartala municipal area. We are trying to divide the pressure on the filling stations by this.”
He said from Tuesday, vehicles with odd registration numbers will get fuel only on odd dates and those with even registration numbers on even dates.
According to Saha, the new system was being introduced to deal with the crisis of petrol and diesel and to check black marketing in petroleum products. Beside this there is also crisis of LPG and essential commodities in the state for the last two months.
Due to heavy rains and poor maintenance, the NH-8 has turned into a muddy field at Lowerpoah in southern Assam adjoining northern Tripura which has almost cut off the landlocked state by road from the rest of India.
WATCH VIDEO: Delhi Govt Draws Up Roadmap To Impound Old Diesel Vehicles: All You Need To Know
 
The NH-8 (previously NH 44) connects Tripura with the rest of India through Assam and Meghalaya but due to the poor road condition thousand of trucks and oil tankers were stuck in Assam’s Lowerpoha area bordering Tripura.
