Salman's new online portal faces legal trouble ||||
 The Khan Market Traders' Association of Delhi is planning legal action against Salman Khan over his recently launched online portal, 'khanmarketonline'. Association president Sanjiv Mehra said, "Salman is neither part of the market, nor has he approached anyone here. He cannot use the name". He added that before taking a legal action, he would request Salman to change the name. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/76785066-0011-0012-4132-000012345678||||
Salman Khan had unveiled his new online shopping website Khanmarketonline.com on his birthday (December 27). But the site has landed into a controversy because its name is similar to the 65-year-old famous Khan Market in Delhi. President of the market association has decided to file a case against the actor.
Sanjiv Mehra, Khan Market Association president told the IndianExpress.com, “Before we file a case against them, we would prefer persuading Salman Khan for not using the name of Khan market.”
Many people have already registered on the website, and the name has already been announced on social networking platforms which might not make it an easy decision to change the name of the website now. (Read: All about Salman Khan’s website khanmarketonline.com)
When asked about the same, Mehra said, “My legal team is not in Delhi, I will talk to them after holidays. He can be a part of Khan Market first if he wants to use this name. It’s not good if you want to enjoy the fruit of the 65-year-old established market name. Khan market in itself is an entity, not only in India, but worldwide. It is the only popular market with this name situated in the heart of Delhi.” (Read: Salman Khan’s bodyguard Shera says will stay with his ‘malik’ forever)
He further added: “When someone goes to the website Khanmarketonline.com, people will think it to be the official website of the famous market in Delhi. You will immediately connect my market to that online website.”
Terming it a mistake, which he said can be corrected, Mehra said: “My humble request is that when he talks so much about being human, so let him be a human, if you’ve committed a mistake, reciprocate that error. What is the problem in doing that.”
