WB cabinet approves creation of 6 new districts ||||
 The West Bengal cabinet on Friday approved a proposal to create six new districts in the state, for which Darjeeling, Burdwan and North-24 Parganas districts will be bifurcated. While Mirik, Manbazar and Jhalda will be made subdivisions, Jhargram will become an administrative district. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said, "It will take us at least six months to a year". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/26212237-0011-0012-2686-000012345678||||

WITH ASSEMBLY elections around the corner, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced that the government will provide rice and wheat at a subsidised rate of Rs 2 per kg to over seven crore people. She also announced the creation of six new districts in the state.
While speaking at the state Secreteriat after a cabinet meeting on Friday, Mamata said: “Seven crore people will get rice and wheat at Rs 2 per kg. We are giving it so that people get food security.”
She added that the food security scheme will be implemented from January. “Currently our govt gives rice at Rs 2 per kg to 3.33 crore people in the state. We are starting a new scheme for food security from January 27. Another three crore people will be included in this scheme and they will get foodgrain at Rs 3 per kg,” said Mamata. “We are doing this by adjusting central government and our own scheme so that people get food security. Bread, butter, shelter and health is the main priority for the society,” said the CM.
The cabinet meeting also took a decision to create new districts and subdivisions for administrative ease. The new districts will include Sundarbans, which currently stretches across the North and South 24 Parganas. While Basirhat will be carved out of North-24 Parganas district, Kalimpong will be created by bifurcating Darjeeling district.
The existing Burdwan district will be bifurcated into Burdwan (Industrial) and Burdwan (Rural) while Jhargram, currently a police district under West Midnapore district, will become a full fledged administrative district. Mamata said Mirik in Darjeeling district will be made into a subdivision while Jhalda and Manbazar in Purulia district will be made subdivisions. “It will take us at least six months to a year to create the new districts. We will have to get necessary court orders… Infrastructure needs to be built and funds also have to be arranged. We will try to get them as soon as possible,” said the CM.
She added that the cabinet has also adopted rehabilitation packages for tea gardens workers in North Bengal and those living in Jangalmahal.
