In favour of reservation in promotions: Govt ||||
 The government on Monday said it was committed to giving reservations in promotions to members of the SC, ST and OBC communities. Social Justice Minister Thaawarchand Gehlot said the government will push forward the proposal after Congress assures its support. This comes just after the Madhya Pradesh High Court quashed the provision of reservations in promotion in state government services. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/8030882f-06d3-476f-9ac0-6d878790aa44-1||||
The government Monday said it was committed to giving reservation in promotions to SC, STs and OBCs and would bring a Bill if the Congress promised its support to give the proposal statutory backing.
“We need to create the right atmosphere. If the Congress can give in writing that it favours reservation in promotions (for members of SC, ST and OBC communities), the government will push forward the proposal….This government is in favour of reservation in promotions. We supported the bill in the Rajya Sabha, when the UPA brought it. But it could not be taken forward when it was brought in the Lok Sabha…,” Union Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Thaawar Chand Gehlot said in the Lok Sabha.
The minister’s response came after Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge asked the government to “make use of its majority in the Lok Sabha” and push the Bill. “You should convince the Prime Minister. Try and bring a law.. build consensus among the parties for it, make them agree,” said Kharge.
Some MPs also raised the issue of members of the SC and ST communities not being adequately represented in the corporate sector.
Gehlot said if the corporate sector willingly decided to provide reservation to SCs, STs and OBCs, the government would not have any problem. “If the corporates willingly create an atmosphere for giving reservation, we have no problem,” the minister said.
In 2012, a constitutional amendment bill for providing quota for SC and STs in government job promotions was passed in the Rajya Sabha despite opposition from the Samajwadi Party. The bill, however, could not go through in the Lok Sabha due to differences among various parties.
During the debate on demands for grants for the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, several MPs also raised the issue of cutting of funds for the ministry and absence of a legislation to ensure proper utilisation of allocated funds. Gehlot, however, said the NDA government had spent more money for the welfare of Dalits and tribals in the last two years than the total funds spent by the UPA government. The demands for grants were later passed by the Lok Sabha after rejecting opposition-sponsored cut motions by voice vote.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
