'Didn't date Yami due to wife's miscarriage' ||||
 Actor Pulkit Samrat has dismissed reports that he started dating actress Yami Gautam after his now estranged wife Shweta Rohira suffered a miscarriage. "Its misusing a miscarriage that happened four years ago, when somebody (Yami) wasnt even in the picture," said Pulkit. The actor further alleged that "there is a particular campaign being run to malign" his image. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0a699569-1ce6-4cb1-9b16-ecc7657bcd7b-1||||
Pulkit Samrat separated from his wife Shweta Rohira after one year of being together and their impending divorce is getting murkier by the day. Shweta has always stated that the reason behind their separation is Pulkit's proximity with co-star Yami Gautam.
ALSO READ: Pulkit Samrat began dating Yami Gautam after wife Shweta's miscarriage?
ALSO READ: Was this HUGE fight between Yami Gautam and Shweta Rohira the beginning of the mess?
There were reports doing the rounds that the Fukrey actor started dating Yami after his wife had a miscarriage. And now Pulkit has finally opened up and said that Yami wasn't even there in the picture when the miscarriage happened.
In an interview to Hindustan Times, Pulkit said, "I was shocked to read news articles about the miscarriage. I was like, "This is such a personal thing for any couple." It was a tragic time for both of us. To put it out in public is not right. What shook my faith further was the fact that it was about a pious thing like motherhood, and the person, with whom I have spent so many years, would go to the extent of falsifying facts to malign my image and put it out in the public to gain sympathy. I was like, "Ab tak main chup raha hoon (I have been quiet till now), but this is a big blow to the entire issue. The miscarriage happened four years ago; it was tragic for both of us. I wonder, "Itni personal cheez bahar kaise aa gayi (how can such a personal fact become public)."
"Reading that article truly ended my relationship [with Shweta], because it was ethically unacceptable. I had no option but to dig deep. The moment I got to know that it had come from the 'horse's mouth', and that they had the hospital bills, totally fabricated, totally false evidence, it shook me. There were fabricated stories in the past, but I don't have any words to react to this," added Pulkit.
When asked whether the reports of him dating Yami after Shweta's miscarriage were true, he refuted all such rumours. He said, "It's misusing a miscarriage that happened four years ago, when somebody (Yami) wasn't even in the picture. I started shooting for Sanam Re four years after that incident. Aap kitna bada jhooth bol loge (How much can you lie)? There's a limit. You're saying that we (Yami and Pulkit) took advantage of the miscarriage since she [Shweta] was advised bed rest. That's such a big lie. All I can say is, this is the point where my relationship ends because I was never with this person (Shweta). I would never expect someone to stoop to this level."
Pulkit also revealed to the daily that Shweta had always been insecure about him and when they separated she started reaching out to his close friends. The Junooniyat actor also said that he had enough of all his and he has given their relationship many chances and is not ready to negotiate anymore.
The Bangistan actor also added that their relationship started turning sour way before Yami entered his life. He said, "Before marriage, our respective mothers had become close. In fact, my mum asked me to propose to her because we were good friends. But when we started dating, it was like a U-turn. There were fights when I went on a holiday, or to celebrate Diwali at my Delhi house. I had stopped making friends."
On the work front, Pulkit Samrat was last seen in Junooniyat.
