NC leaders encouraging anti-India forces: BJP ||||
 The BJP on Thursday slammed National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah for playing "politics of secessionism" and "encouraging separatists and anti-India forces" in the state by raising issues like NEET and Sainik Colony. BJP leader Virender Gupta said that the statements were issued to "settle political score with CM Mehbooba Mufti and the PDP-BJP alliance government". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3c894ccd-5fa6-43d4-8d70-b7ca6b941381-1||||
Ruling BJP Thursday slammed National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah for raking up tricky issues like NEET and Sainik Colony, alleging that the two are playing “politics of secessionism” and “encouraging separatists and anti-India forces” in the state.
“We strongly condemn the statements issued by the leaders of National Conference, in particular the father and son duo, Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah on some recent issues such as NIT, shelter house for labourers, Sainik Colony in Valley and now on NEET, to settle political score with Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti and the PDP-BJP alliance government,” BJP spokesperson Virender Gupta said.
He said the statements were intended to “percolate anti-India feelings among the Kashmiri Muslims and encourage separatists and anti-India forces in the Valley”.
He alleged that the NC had “once again adopted the policy of alienating the Kashmiri Muslims from the national mainstream, thus putting the Valley in turmoil and derails it from the path of development.”
With regard to the Sainik Colony issue, Gupta said the decision had been taken in March 12 at a meeting held under the chairmanship of state Governor and attended by then Chief Minister Omar Abdullah.
He said the proposed Sainik Colony was to be developed at par with other colonies like colony for police personnel, employees’ colony.
A similar Sainik colony exists in Jammu city which is meant for the armymen holding state subject.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
“Then how is it going to affect the so-called special privileges enjoyed by the state under Article 370? What was the need for raising hue and cry, particularly when Omar himself was party to the decision,” he asked.
He also said that opposition to National Eligibility Entrance Examination (NEET) for the students of Jammu and Kashmir by the Abdullahs is “completely illogical and baseless”.
