Railway employees to get Ritu Beri designed uniforms ||||
 Railway employees will soon get new Indian culture themed uniforms created by fashion designer Ritu Beri. She has submitted four different sets of uniforms to the Ministry of Railways, which would seek public opinion to select the final uniform. In the first phase, the uniform will be issued to five lakh of the 13 lakh employees of the public transporter. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/03369061-2bdd-4c96-b3e0-680af8602ae7-1||||
(WITH PIX)
New Delhi, Jul 31(PTI) Five lakh railway employees comprising front office staff, TTEs, guards, drivers and catering personnel will soon don new uniforms created by fashion designer Ritu Beri woven around the theme of Indian culture.
Beri submitted four different sets of uniform, each with a distinct texture, to the Railway Ministry five days back and the public transporter will soon launch an online initiative on Twitter, Facebook and the ministry's website seeking the views of people to help it select the attire.
In the first phase, the new uniform will be issued to five lakh of 13 lakh employees of the Indian Railway.
Beri said the look of the uniform will be an ode to India and her exoticism.
"The focus is to reflect modern India while respecting our deep-rooted tradition and culture, thus reflecting the glory of India. The uniforms will be Indo-western in cut and silhouette with comfort being the most important factor," she said.
The idea behind introducing the new uniform is to instill a sense of pride and belonging among the staff rendering their services to around two crore passengers every day, a senior official involved in the project said.
He said, in the first phase, front office staff, guards, drivers and catering personnel, onboard staff, station masters, loco pilots, train ticket examiners and gangmen will be given the uniform at an estimated cost about Rs 50 crore. The new uniform will also be given to the technical staff in workshops and production units.
Currently, railway staff including TTEs, station masters and guards wear uniforms which were designed long ago.
Beri's new collection includes sarees and T-shirts.
The new dress is expected to be ready for use by the year-end, the official said, adding a common uniform can be worn for ceremonial occasions like celebration of Railway Day, sporting events and prize distribution ceremonies.
