J&K: 8 CRPF jawans martyred in Pampore encounter ||||
 Eight CRPF jawans were killed and 26 others were injured on Saturday after suspected terrorists opened fire on the bus carrying the jawans in Jammu and Kashmir's Pampore area. Officials said two militants were killed and a search operation was launched to find other militants involved in the attack. As per reports, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) has claimed responsibility for the attack. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/630826dc-8a8d-405e-a3e1-8f1937603f80-1||||
At least eight CRPF personnel were killed after suspected militants opened fire at a bus carrying the jawans in Pampore, Jammu-Kashmir. Two terrorists were also gunned down after the paramilitary force retaliated the attack.
“Two terrorists were killed, we’ve lost 5 jawans and 20 injured. The injured were admitted in a hospital,” said Rajesh Yadav, CRPF commandant.
However, three more jawans succumbed to their injuries at an Army Hospital. The CRPF said that the two terrorists, who have been neutralized in the gunfire, appeared to be Pakistanis and were Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives.
READ: J&K: Two militants killed by security forces in Baramulla
The CRPF jawans were reportedly ambushed by the militants while returning to their base after a practice session at a nearby firing range.
J&K Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti strongly condemned the attack saying that the elements inimical to interests of Jammu and Kashmir have always tried to derail the peace efforts and the latest militant strike at Pampore was again aimed at subverting the peace and development initiatives launched by the Government.
“The only purpose of such blood-spattered acts of violence is to add to the tragedies and miseries of the people and subvert the Government’s efforts aimed at bringing permanent peace and prosperity to Jammu and Kashmir,” the Chief Minister said in a statement.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was pained at the loss of lives and saluted the courage displayed by the martyred jawans.
Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar offered his condolences to the families of the martyred and said that he is praying for the early recovery of those injured.
GALLERY | Pampore: At least 8 CRPF jawans killed in militant attack on convoy
MoS Kiren Rijiju said that the terrorists fled from the spot using a getaway vehicle.
“The one’s (terrorists) who were in car fled from the spot, However, jawans were able to kill 2, necessary action being taken,” said Rijiju.
READ | Leaders pay tribute to jawans martyred in militant ambush
Home Minister Rajnath Singh was reportedly briefed on the Pampore attack. The DG of the paramilitary force and other senior officials are expected to reach Pampore tomorrow and take stock of the situation.
