Pathankot attackers' bodies sent for post-mortem ||||
 The dead bodies of Pathankot Air Force base terror attack militants were on Thursday sent for post-mortem. While all six terrorists were killed by the Indian security forces, dead bodies of four were found intact as the remaining two got blown away into pieces. Further, Pathankot Senior Superintendent of Police RK Bakshi informed that combing operation entered its last phase. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/70448239-0012-0001-5374-000012345678||||
The bodies of four militants gunned down in encounter with security forces during the terror attack on the country’s strategic air base were sent for post mortem examination on Wednesday, while combing operation to “sanitise” the entire air base was on its last leg.
All six militants were killed in the attack which started in the wee hours of Saturday. While the bodies of four were found to be intact, the remaining two were blown into pieces.
The bodies of four terrorists were brought to civil hospital for the post mortem examination, officials said adding that a team of four doctors would conduct the medical examination on them.
Meanwhile, the mop up operation continued to fully sanitise the air force base. “Our work is in progress in the entire area,” Pathankot Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) R K Bakshi said.
Security officials said that the combing operations will continue at the forward base where seven security personnel and six terrorists were killed.
Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar has already clarified that there “is no suspected terrorist inside right now. (still) I will not give a negative report till the combing operations are over.”
He has said that the combing operation was for safety purpose as there are live, unexploded bombs besides rest of the ammunition.
The terrorists were carrying AK-47 rifles, modified Under Grenade Barrel Launcher, pistols, Swiss and commando knives, 40-50 kg of bullets besides 3-4 dozens of magazine and mortars.
The NIA has already registered three cases in connection with the brazen terror strike, including the murder of a taxi driver by terrorists, kidnapping of a Superintendent of Police rank officer and attack on the IAF base on the intervening night of January one and two.
Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) team was assisting the 20-member agency team that is camping in Pathankot.
