Gun stolen from drunk cop in Pune ||||
 A country-made pistol and two live cartridges were stolen from a police constable in Pune when he passed out on a footpath reportedly after drinking heavily. The constable from Ahmednagar was supposed to submit the gun for ballistics analysis at a Mumbai lab. Ahmednagar's SP ordered an inquiry and said the constable will be suspended if he was at fault. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/09380866-0005-0001-6783-000012345678||||
A cop from Ahmednagar comes to Pune on official duty. He dozes off on a footpath near Pune station after a heavy drinking session. A country-made pistol and two live cartridges in his possession, which had to be submitted to a forensic lab, get stolen. Ahmednagar superintendent of police has now ordered a departmental inquiry against Constable Sanjay Mane, who is attached to Kotwali police station in Ahmednagar district.
As per information given by Bundgarden police, Mane had started from Ahmednagar on Friday morning and was carrying two containers of viscera to be submitted to the Forensic Sciences Department at BJ Medical College for chemical analysis, and a country-made pistol and two live cartridges seized in a crime to be submitted to the State Forensic Sciences Lab at Kalina in Mumbai for ballistic analysis.
Police said that after he submitted the two containers of viscera at BJ Medical college, he had a fight with a person on the streets. The two were taken to the police station of Government Railway Police. The on-duty cops inquired about the gun in his possession. Mane was let go was after he showed them the documents.
According to cops, Mane had a heavy drinking session after that and at around 7.30 pm, he went to Good Luck restaurant near Pune railway station. Minutes later, he dozed off on the footpath next to the restaurant. When he got up at around 3.30 am, he realised that the pistol and cartridges he was carrying were stolen. He then approached Bundgarden police station with a complaint.
When contacted, Saurabh Tripathi, superintendent of police of Ahmednagar district, said, “After we were informed about the incident, I have ordered a departmental inquiry. If he is found at fault, he will be suspended from duty.”
Three days ago, an NCP leader had filed a complaint at Kothrud police station after his licensed pistol was stolen. In another incident, an Army Havaldar filed a complaint at Wanwadi police after his personal weapon was stolen from his house when he was out of station.
