DIFF opens with Jacqueline's English film ||||
 Bollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandezs maiden English movie Definition of Fear premiered at the opening of the fourth Delhi International Film Festival (DIFF) on Saturday. Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia was the chief guest at the fest's inaugural at Connaught Place, Delhi. The fest will continue at the NDMC Convention Centre till December 10 showcasing 210 films from 68 countries. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/03399538-0012-0012-1017-000012345678||||
Bollywood actress Jacqueline Fernandez’s debut English movie “Definition of Fear” raised the curtains on the fourth Delhi International Film Festival.
The opener, held at Central Park, Connaught Place here, had Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia as its chief guest. For rest of the days, NDMC Convention Centre has been chosen as the venue of the festival.
“Definition of Fear” revolves around four girls, who holiday in an old mansion in the forest and how their holiday turns into a fearful death trap causing their death.
Besides Jacqueline, Catherine Barrel, Blythe Hubbard, Mercedes Papilla and Mathew Stephuik have essayed prime roles in the movie.
Jacqueline, 30, was awarded by Ram Kishore Parcha, the founder president of DIFF.
“Zero”, a sci-fi YouTube project written and directed by David Victori, and executive produced by Ridley Scott and Michael Fassbender, was also screened.
Filmmakers Tigmanshu Dhulia, Sudhir Mishra and reality TV star Ashutosh Kaushik were among the other celebrities at the opening ceremony.
Russia will be the ‘country focus’ at the festival with a tribute to legendary actor-filmmaker Raj Kapoor through a Russian documentary on the late actor filmmaker. “Comrade Raj Kapoor” will be the closing film of the festival.
It has been directed by Alexei Burykin and Produced by Yakov Kaller. The story and concept is Svetlana Reschchecko, who researched extensively on Kapoor’s films.
210 Films from 68 Countries will be showcased, while 50 NRI and Indian poets will be the part of the festival.
There will also be seminars and workshops organized on Film Market, Animation films and Indian Market during the fest.
