Curfew reimposed in Handwara, other areas ||||
 Curfew was again imposed on Monday in Handwara and Kupwara areas of Jammu & Kashmir as fresh protests broke out in the regions. Earlier in the day, authorities had lifted the curfew from 8 am to 11 am and restored the mobile internet services in the valley. Around 150 youths reportedly pelted stones in Handwara as authorities relaxed the restrictions. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/68090614-0008-0004-0803-000012345678||||
Fresh protests broke out on Monday in Handwara and neighbouring areas of Kupwara district in north Kashmir, prompting authorities to reimpose curfew-like restrictions which were relaxed for a few hours in the morning, while mobile internet services have been restored in the Valley.
Authorities lifted the restrictions on movement of people for three hours in Kupwara town in the district and the relaxation was further extended as there was no report of any untoward incident there, a police official said.
Also Read: Mobile internet services restored in Kashmir Valley
The twin towns of Handwara and Kupwara had been rocked by violent protests that left five persons dead since last Tuesday. After a lull Sunday, fresh protests broke out today in Handwara, Kralgund and Trehgam areas.
“Restrictions have been imposed again in Handwara, Kralgund and Trehgam areas of Kupwara district following violent protests,” a police official said.
Around 150 youths started pelting stones in Handwara town as authorities relaxed the restrictions for three hours from 8.00 AM to 11. 00 AM, the official said.
Also Read: Handwara girl meets CJM, repeats clean chit to Army 
“The protesters were chased away and there was no damage done in the incident,” he added.
Mobile internet services, which were snapped in the Valley following violent protests over the alleged molestation of a girl by an army soldier on Tuesday, were restored a little past midnight as there was no major incident of protest or violence yesterday, an official said today.
Three persons including a woman were killed in firing by security forces on protesters on Tuesday while two more persons were killed in separate security forces action against violent protestors on Wednesday at Drugmulla and on Friday at Nathnusa.
