'AAP following Cong by taking anti-Sikh stance' ||||
 Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal on Monday said the AAP is following the Congress party by adopting an "anti-Punjab" and "anti-Sikh" stance. Badal claimed that the AAP has hurt Sikhs' sentiments by superimposing their election symbol 'broom' on Golden Temple in their youth manifesto. Further, he cautioned that the AAP, if voted to power, would "ruin" Punjab like the Congress. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/006beeab-5317-4505-9264-ec4c9670eaa0-1||||
Muktsar, Jul 11 (PTI) Terming AAP as "totally ignorant" about issues of Punjabis, Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal today cautioned the people that if voted to power AAP would "ruin" the state like Congress.
On the sidelines of Sangat Darshan programme in Lambi assembly segment, he said that the performance of any party was judged by its working and AAP has proved it was following the Congress by adopting "anti-Punjab" and "anti-Sikh stance".
"AAP leaders have no respect for any religion and by equating their manifesto with holy scriptures of all religions, the AAP leadership has bruised the psyche of people," Badal said.
The chief minister claimed AAP has hurt religious sentiments of Sikhs by pasting the picture of their symbol 'broom' on Sri Darbar Sahib.
He claimed the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi had also discontinued the holiday to observe the festival of 'Baisakhi'.
The chief minister alleged while Congress had signed various water agreements to deprive the state of its waters, the AAP was now trying its best to ensure that these agreements were implemented at the earliest.
Badal alleged the two parties were trying to ruin the state.
Regarding the possibility of declaration of early polls in state by Election Commission of India, he said the SAD-BJP alliance was fully prepared for assembly polls at any point of time.
He said the alliance parties would contest the elections on the plank of its pro-people and growth oriented policies.
The chief minister also mentioned about the free treatment to patients suffering from Hepatitis- C for which the state government has started 'Chief Minister Hepatitis- C Relief fund'.
