Accused of corruption, Bassi dares AAP to debate ||||
 Delhi Police Commissioner BS Bassi on Saturday dared AAP government to hold an open debate over the allegations of corruption against him. "My only point is that if you want to fight me, do so as per the law," he added. Bassi's statements came a day after several AAP MLAs accused him of misusing his position in the Assembly. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/01129874-0007-0012-0852-000012345678||||
AAP MLAs Friday accused Delhi Police Commissioner B S Bassi of misusing his position to acquire a flat and also created a furore in the assembly over controversial comments allegedly made by him.
AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj said Bassi had acquired a flat in the Lucky Home Co-operative Housing Society in Rohini in 1979 in collusion with officers attached to the Registrar of Co-operative Societies. He claimed that Bassi, then the deputy commissioner of police (north), had misused his position and tampered with records.
Responding to the accusations, the police commissioner allegedly said he would send “liars” to the “graveyard”.
The police commissioner accused the AAP government of indulging in a “vicious propaganda” and asserted that the property in question was “purely legitimate and lawfully acquired”. He said he was open to a debate on the issue with anyone, including Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, adding, “My only point is that if you want to fight me, do so as per the law; why resort to such unreasonable ways?”
AAP MLAs including Sanjiv Jha, Sarita Singh and Bharadwaj said Bassi’s alleged statement was tantamount to threatening to eliminate AAP MLAs in a “fake encounter”.
Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said, “I had called for files related to the case… I was told some files have gone missing.”
Leader of Opposition and BJP MLA Vijender Gupta, however, said the allegations against Bassi were “politically motivated”. Taking a strong stance against Bassi’s alleged comments, Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said, “What right does he have to send anyone to the graveyard? Is this conduct becoming of a senior officer? You (Gupta) haven’t said anything about why he lost his mental balance”.
Gupta replied, “Bassi said that he will send liars to the graveyard. Only liars should take offence to this statement. Let the liars of the world form a union and file an FIR against Bassi if they are offended.”
Kejriwal has now ordered an inquiry by the Anti-Corruption Branch into the matter.
