Death toll in Madhya Pradesh floods rises to 15 ||||
 Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday said at least 15 people have died due to floods in the state. The authorities are taking all precautionary measures to control the situation as the MeT department has forecasted heavy rainfall in the coming days, he added. Chouhan also issued survey orders to assess the damage and compensate the poor. ||||
 ANI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/87347048-40f7-4fe2-8d6f-f8a06d70a0f0-1||||
Bhopal, July 10 (ANI): Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan on Sunday said that at least 15 people have lost their lives so far in the flash floods, adding the concerned authorities are taking all precautionary measures to bring the situation under control as the MeT office has forecast heavy showers in the coming days.
Stating the conditions are getting better as of now, Chauhan told ANI there are possibilities of heavy rainfall is Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain.
"In Rewa division, everything is getting under control and the conditions are getting better at several places. The flood like situation is getting better as the water level is decreasing. It was drizzling in few areas, but was not raining heavily. In Bhopal division also, things are now getting better," he stated.
Chauhan said there is water logging at several places, adding Bhopal-Bareli road and Raisen-Vidisha road are closed post the flood-like situation.
The Chief Minister said there is a possibility of heavy rainfall in Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain divisions and added that an alert has been issued to the Collectors to remain alert.
Lauding the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) for helping the people in this hour of crisis, Chauhan said survey orders have been issued so that the damage can be assessed and in particular the poor can be adequately compensated.
"After the water level decreases, there can be a possibility of the spread of water borne diseases. So, the Health Department has been given this responsibility to work in collision with the Municipal Corporation and local authorities to ensure clean drinking water is available to all," said Chauhan.
"Since the Meteorological Department has forecast heavy rains. So, the district administrations have been issued orders to take all types of precautionary measures.The situation as of now is under control. The district administration has done a tremendous job.We are ready to tackle the future challenges," he added.
Chauhan further said the Centre has been briefed about the present situation in the state.
"I had a telephonic conversation with Rajnath Singh ji today and I have apprised the Home Minister of the present situation. I will also brief the honourable Prime Minister about the situation here," he said. (ANI)
