Odisha doesn't trace juveniles post release: CAG ||||
 A draft report on Odisha by Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) on the status of juveniles post release has revealed that no mechanism exists to track them nor a way to rehabilitate them. The report adds that police haven't kept a record of released juveniles and National Crime Records Bureau doesn't have data of crimes committed by juveniles post release. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/31568358-0008-0012-3438-000012345678||||
A draft CAG report on juvenile homes of Odisha, completed last month, deals with several of the same concerns that MPs would raise in the Rajya Sabha while passing a law under which juveniles aged 16 to 18 will be tried as adults for heinous crimes.
There is no mechanism that can track juveniles after they are released, the draft report notes, nor is there any aftercare rehabilitation in the absence of such an organisation. It was in the aftermath of the release of the juvenile convict in the Delhi bus gang-rape, in fact, that the Rajya Sabha pushed through the bill amending the Juvenile Justice Act.
Between 2012 and 2015, Odisha’s four special homes released 77 juveniles after they turned 18. There was no mechanism to find out where they went. The CAG draft says the additional general of police (CID) did not maintain any record of juveniles released, while the National Crime Records Bureau data did not have information about juveniles charged with offences after turning 18. There was no counselling facility in any of the observation homes (for undertrials) or special homes (for convicted juveniles).
The draft report also points out lack of healthcare in the homes, and cites the examples of a HIV-positive inmate being made to sleep on the floor in Rourkela, and 17 others suffering from scabies being made to share a room with other juveniles. For want of doctors or instruments, the health of juveniles was not checked quarterly as it should have been, it says.
Though the rule is that undertrials and confirmed offenders should be segregated, the CAG found several observation homes and special homes were functioning on the same premises. In Berhampur, the observation home was functioning out of a home for destitute women. As a result, three girls were accommodated with 40 destitute women.
The CAG found the observation homes for boys in Berhampur and Rourkela had 68 and 105 boys respectively against a capacity of 50. Against a minimum requirement of 40 sq ft dormitory space per juvenile, less than 20 sq ft was available for 290 juveniles in eight homes. Though the provision is for at least one bathroom for 10 children and one latrine seven children, there were no bathrooms in six of the homes; the juveniles had to bathe in the open. In six such homes, the latrines were without water supply. At three homes, children had to drink water directly from the borewell.
Under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Odisha Rules, every probe has to be completed within four months after the first summary inquiry. Juvenile justice boards are supposed to complete every inquiry within six months. In at least 1,027 non-serious cases, the probe by JJ boards was pending beyond six months. The audit found 137 juveniles were produced before JJBs between 1.5 and 28 months from the date of their last production.
