Rajeev Kumar reinstated as Kolkata Police chief ||||
 After being removed by the Election Commission (EC) as Kolkata Police Commissioner, senior IPS officer Rajeev Kumar was on Saturday reinstated, soon after Mamata Banerjee returned to power. He had been removed by the EC following complaints of "snooping" on opposition leaders in poll-bound West Bengal. Meanwhile, outgoing Commissioner Soumen Mitra has been asked to take over as ADGP Training. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/4ad30949-93d1-4d90-8855-465553b7475a-1||||
Senior IPS officer Rajeev Kumar, who was removed as the Kolkata Police Commissioner by the Election Commission during the West Bengal assembly polls, was reinstated to the post, confirmed state government sources on Saturday.
The move to reinstate Kumar comes two days after the Banerjee-led TMC government came back into power, with a massive margin of over 211 of the 294 Assembly seats. Kumar was replaced after direct orders from the EC and Soumen Mitra had taken his place on April 12. Mitra will now be taking charge as the ADG Training.
Also read | Reports about police chief’s ‘ouster for snooping’ cause confusion in Kolkata
After Mitra’s appointment, Banerjee in a rally at Chandipur in East Midnapore district had alleged that officers were appointed to posts like Kolkata police commissioner, district magistrates and SPs under the instructions of the poll panel, and said that she had taken note of who had done what and also those who had worked “impartially”. “Those responsible will have to face the consequences. Election Commission’s duty is to ensure free and fair poll, but they have unleashed terror with the help of a section of police officials,” she had said while adding that “if someone thinks by getting power for 15 days, he will do anything, then he is mistaken”.

At the time, the EC had sought a recording of West Bengal CM and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee’s speech at a rally, wherein she claimed that a section of the police had “unleashed terror” on people at the behest of the poll panel and warned them of “consequences” if she was voted to power.
Kumar’s removal had come immediately after the first phase, in the six phase Assembly elections, had ended. Leaders of all the leading Opposition parties here – CPIM, Congress and BJP – had complained to the EC, alleging that Kumar was partial towards the state government. “Following an order of the Election Commission of India, the Kolkata Police Commissioner is removed from his post. ADG (CID) Soumen Mitra will replace him,” the EC had said while adding that following the complaints against him and the demands of his removal, they were considering it for sometime.
