Did suggest odd-even car idea to Sheila: Ramesh ||||
 Former Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh on Saturday appreciated the even and odd-numbered cars policy of Delhi government and said that he had suggested the idea to former Delhi CM Sheila Dikshit. Admitting that Congress couldn't implement it, Ramesh said "such kind of restrictions...has paid off" world over. Ramesh added that better public transport system will ensure that it doesn't fail. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/83003814-0006-0012-0961-000012345678||||
Former Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh Saturday backed the Delhi government’s new restrictions on movement of private vehicles on the capital’s roads but said this would not work if public transport is not improved and its capacities not augmented.
“I would say it is a good move. Many cities across the world follow such kind of restrictions and it has paid off,” said Ramesh.
The former Union minister is in Paris as part of an international parliamentary forum on climate change that holds a meeting every year alongside the annual climate conference.
On Friday, the AAP-led government had announced several measures to curb air pollution, including a new system in which even and odd-numbered cars would be allowed to ply only on alternate days.
“In 2009, I had seen such a system being implemented in Beijing which, at that time, used to be called the most polluted city in the world. I had suggested to the then chief minister of Delhi, Sheila Dikshit, to explore the possibility of a similar plan for Delhi as well. At that time, it could not be worked out, but I am happy that the present Delhi government has taken this decision,” Ramesh, often described as an activist environment minister during his tenure, said.
But he said the Delhi government would need to upgrade its public transport at a rapid pace.
“In the last few years, the Metro has come as a big help to commuters in Delhi. Lots of people have started travelling on it. But the expansion of Metro has to be speeded up now and point-to-point connectivity ensured,” he said.
“You would not want a good idea to go down the drain because you did not have the supporting infrastructure in place. More buses, more Metro trains, feeder services… you would have to think about all sorts of options to discourage people from taking their cars out,” added Ramesh. He also said that India must start planning for an energy mix that is less dependent on coal, sometime after two or three decades.
“We cannot reduce our coal consumption now. Those who are asking for it are being unreasonable. Whichever way you look at it, even in the most aggressive scenario of renewable development, coal will continue to be the mainstay of India’s electricity generation for the next two decades, if not more. But that is not to say, we must not begin thinking about letting the coal consumption plateau…,” he said.
Ramesh was referring to the debate on India’s coal consumption which had become a big talking point at the Paris climate change conference in the first week.
