Arunachal Cong rebel says he is with the party ||||
 Kalikho Pul, the Congress rebel leader from Arunachal Pradesh who was elected the new CM by rebel MLAs after a no-confidence motion against the current CM Nabam Tuki inisisted that he was still with the Congress. Pul also denied siding with the BJP and insisted that Tuki should step down on account of corruption charges and the subsequent CBI enquiry. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/95858638-0007-0012-2771-000012345678||||
Rebel Arunachal Pradesh Congress leader Kalikho Pul, who was elected “leader of the House” by dissidents and Opposition members in Itanagar two days ago, on Saturday said that he and his 20 supporters were still members of the Congress party, and have been waiting for a meeting with the high command for over two-and-a-half months.
“Ours is an internal dissent within the Congress. Yes, the Opposition BJP members of the Assembly too want Nabam Tuki to go. But we continue to be Congress legislators and we are waiting to meet Sonia and Rahul Gandhi whenever we are called. Nabam Tuki and his group have been giving a wrong feedback to the high command,” Pul said at a press meet here on Saturday.
He dismissed allegations that the BJP was backing him and his leaders to topple the Congress government of CM Nabam Tuki. “It is totally false. But what can we do when the BJP MLAs also want the removal of Tuki?” he said. Pul was accompanied by 19 other rebel Congress MLAs at the press meet, with the exception of deputy speaker TN Thongdok.
The rebel leader also denied any link to Governor JP Rajkhowa, whose order to advance the Assembly’s winter session added to the political crisis in the state. “Our dissidence is more than nine months old. He (Rajkhowa) came only in June,” he said.
The MLA added that he was planning to appeal against the Gauhati High Court’s order, which had put on hold until February 1, 2016, all decisions including Rajkhowa’s December 9 order to advance the Assembly session.
Training his guns on Tuki, Pul read out a list of corruption charges against him. He said Gauhati High Court had ordered a CBI inquiry against the CM.
