Gurgaon: Manipuri man beaten up ||||
 A 30-year-old Manipuri man, Lal Bruce Thangkhal, was allegedly beaten up in Gurgaon on Tuesday by four unidentified men in front of his female friend while returning from a party in Chakarpur village. Thangkhal, media in-charge of Gurgaon's North East Support Centre and Helpline tried to resist the men who allegedly passed lewd comments, but was left with 15 stitches. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/26956090-0005-0012-1461-000012345678||||
A 30-year-old man from Manipur was allegedly beaten up in front of a woman friend in Gurgaon Tuesday evening, said police, even as the assault revived talk of violence against people from the Northeast in the national capital region.
Lal Bruce Thangkhal, the media in-charge of North East Support Centre and Helpline (NESCH) in Gurgaon, suffered extensive injuries when a group of men assaulted him at about 8 pm, said police sources. He was returning from a party in Chakarpur village when a group of people attacked them, added the sources.
His friend Amy Niang, 26, witnessed the assault and tried to help him, but she was pushed aside, said the sources.
Bruce received 15 stitches on the head at Uma Sanjeevani Hospital. Doctors said when he was brought in, both his eyes were also swollen. Police have registered an FIR against four unidentified persons.
“I was walking down, when a few men, without any reason, started passing lewd remarks. They were drunk. When I objected, they abused and assaulted me out of frustration. I was pushed on the road and fell unconscious,” said Bruce, Wednesday.
He said Niang tried to come to his rescue, but was pushed by one of the attackers. Niang said, “When I rushed to rescue him, one of them abused and pushed me. He was about to hit me when one of them stopped him.”
More than 100 NESCH members from across NCR rushed to the hospital Wednesday and also met the deputy commissioner of police. “We have formed teams and are investigating. The accused are yet to be identified. We will take prompt action,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP (East) and nodal officer for people from Northeast in Gurgaon.
Delhi and peripheral areas have seen sporadic reports of violence against people from Northeast states. In January 2014, Nido Tania, a 19-year-old student from Arunachal Pradesh, died after allegedly being beaten up by shopkeepers in Lajpat Nagar following an argument over his appearance and clothing. In October 2014, two call centre employees from Nagaland were detained and beaten up by locals in Gurgaon’s Sikandarpur village.
The assailants also chopped off the hair of one of the victims, Awang Newme.
On Monday, a Parliamentary standing committee had said in a report that it felt despite the institutional arrangement made by Delhi Police for safety of people of Northeast region, the frequent crimes being committed against them was a “disturbing phenomenon” affecting the image of the police.
