Congress rules out liquor ban in Puducherry ||||
 The Congress Party has ruled out the possibility of a ban on the sale of alcohol in Puducherry saying it is not "feasible", after the party's manifesto was released. Notably, AINRC party's leader and Puducherry Chief Minister N Rangasamy had earlier said there is no scope for total prohibition as most of the state's revenue comes from liquor trade. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0baa42b8-4305-4ff2-ad6a-0fd912160e71-1||||
A day after AINRC leader and Chief Minister N Rangasamy said there was no scope for total prohibition in the Union Territory as a major chunk of revenue was from liquor sales, Congress also ruled out a ban on the sale of alcohol, saying it was not “feasible”.
Speaking to reporters here, Congress leader and former Union Minister V Narayanasamy Friday said, “There is absolutely no scope for introduction of total prohibition in Puducherry in view of its unique culture”.
“Prohibition is absolutely not feasible in Puducherry,” he said after PCC leader A Namassivayam released the Congress manifesto.
Rangasamy had Thursday said there was no scope for prohibition in Puducherry as excise collected from liquor trade forms a major chunk of the revenue.
Narayanasamy said if the Congress-DMK combine was voted to power in the May 16 assembly polls, efforts would be made for special category statehood status to Puducherry with fiscal benefits from the Centre.
The manifesto also promised waiver of loans borrowed by farmers from banks, holding of civic polls with 50 per cent reservation for women in decision-making posts in local bodies and hike in monthly pension to freedom fighters from the present Rs 7,000 to Rs 10,000.
It also promised implementation of ‘Goondas Act’ and assured a peaceful environment, espcially for industrialists, and free set-top boxes for each television connection.
Namassivayam said a new industrial policy would be introduced and steps would be taken to attract foreign investors in industrial sector.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
The manifesto also assured 50 per cent subsidy to power consumers and steps for the welfare of fishermen, minorities, scheduled castes and backward classes.
Namassivayam said his party was against offering freebies in the manifesto as “we will promise only that which we can implement”, referring to the promises made by ruling AINRC.
