TMC trying to eliminate opposition: CPM ||||
 CPM's West Bengal Secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra has alleged that since the declaration of Assembly election results, the Trinamool Congress has been spearheading attacks on Left supporters to eliminate opposition. Around 500 party offices have been attacked by TMC supporters since Thursday, he said. Water supply were cut off in those corporation and municipal wards where TMC lost, he added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/fc655afc-5539-43f2-9f0a-f9db7c701017-1||||
CPM state Secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra on Saturday accused the ruling Trinamool Congress of orchestrating violent attacks on the party with an aim to eliminate opposition political parties from West Bengal.
Speaking to reporters in Kolkata on Saturday, Mishra claimed that there had been a series of attacks on police stations and party workers by the Trinamool-led goons since election results were declared Thursday. “The ruling party has no political will to curb the inhuman attacks on opponents. Instead, the Trinamool is spearheading these attacks aimed at eliminating the opposition... Countless people have been attacked since the announcement of the election results,” he said.
Alleging that 500 party offices have been attacked by TMC supporters since Thursday, Mishra said, “They have no right to occupy our party offices and attack our cadre... They are specifically targeting those party comrades who have acted as counting agents and polling agents.”
Accusing the administration of implicating Marxist supporters in false cases, the CPM senior leader alleged that basic amenities like water supply were cut off in corporation and municipal wards where Trinamool candidates lost.
TMC leader Partha Chatterjee refuted the allegations and asked CPM to take lessons from the people’s mandate. “They should take lessons from the people’s mandate and stop making such false allegations,” Chatterjee told PTI.
Mamata had met newly elected MLAs of Trinamool Congress on Friday and warned that she would not tolerate sabotage or feuds within the party. Her warning came in light of criticism that loss of two of her ministers from Malda - Sabitri Mitra and Krishnendu Narayan Chowdhury - was a direct result of infighting within the party.
