Drones to help in surveillance in Pathankot base ||||
 In a bid to boost surveillance around secure installations after the Pathankot attack, the Western Command has floated tenders to acquire at least 9 hand-held drones. The 10-kg drones with high-resolution cameras will transmit real-time data to a centralised control room. The Western Command is also purchasing full-body truck scanners and thermal imaging cameras for improving security. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/58660898-0005-0001-8500-000012345678||||
In a bid to bolster its surveillance capabilities around important installations in the backdrop of the Pathankot airbase terror attack, the Western Command Headquarters has begun the process to purchase nine hand-held Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs).
It is learnt that the command headquarters has already floated the tenders to purchase the hand-held UAVs.
Sources in Western Command headquarters also informed that a command-level conference was held recently in which issues pertaining to purchase of security equipment for various military installations under the Western Command were discussed.
Among the list of equipment that would be purchased in the days to come are full-body truck scanners, thermal imaging cameras and boom barriers that are needed to secure the perimeter areas and the entrance of the military stations.
Giving details of the hand-held UAVs, a senior official said these fall under the category of mini-UAVs and have a ceiling of around 1000 metres above the ground level. “These UAVs are also known as man-pack UAVs in military parlance as they can be carried by patrolling soldiers in their backpacks and can be launched at short notice in case they suspect the presence of some intruders in a specific area,” the official said.
These hand-held UAVS will be fitted with high resolution cameras, including infra-red, for night surveillance. Weighing less than 10 kg, they will transmit real time data and video to recording devices installed in a centralised control room.
The full-body truck scanners will be capable of scanning standard cargo trucks loaded with goods, including driver’s cabin, without unloading and unpacking the cargo to detect if restricted items like arms and ammunition — or even intruders — are being transported inside military installations hidden in any cavities in the truck’s frame.
Senior Western Command officials inform that these security reviews and procurements are being made after directions were received from the Ministry of Defence, through the Army Headquarters, that a security review of all military installations must be undertaken in order to prevent an attack of the kind which took place in Pathankot.
