5 killed in protests over Hizbul commander's death ||||
 At least five people were killed and over thirty were injured on Saturday during protests across Jammu and Kashmir over Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani's death in an encounter. Further, curfew-like restrictions have been imposed and mobile internet services have been suspended in some areas. The annual Amarnath Yatra has also been suspended in view of the tension in J&K. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a9859fd7-f905-4a6f-a26a-31d23ea379b4-1||||
Protests against the killing of Hijbul Mujahideen militant Burhan Wani on Friday, led to violence in Kashmir on Saturday. At least 8 civilians were killed and several others were injured in clashes with security forces in Srinagar.
Wani was shot dead along with two other militants by security forces and police in Bumdoora village on Friday, 85 km south of Srinagar.
READ | Wani, two others neutralised jointly by RR, CRPF, J&K Police: GOC | Do not hand over Burhan Wani’s body to family: Sushil Pandit | PHOTOS
Protesters attacked police posts, security personnel and BJP office in Kulgam. Groups of youths pelted stones at police posts and police stations at Bandipora, Qazigund and Larnoo in Anantnag district, a police official said.
WATCH Thousands Gather For Funeral Of Burhan Wani
The separatists leaders called for shutdown in Kashmir over Wani’s killing and mobile internet services was suspended.
WATCH Unrest In Kashmir Valley Following Killing Of Burhan Wani
Here are the LIVE updates of the situation in Kashmir:
08.31 pm:

Kashmiri youth need to ask these leaders “if jihad, if this gun is so pious why don’t you or your children pick it up?- Junaid Qureshi
— ANI (@ANI_news) July 9, 2016
08.30 pm: Poor people’s sons are dying on streets and they are glorifying it: J Qureshi
08.25 pm:

Children of these (separatists) leaders are tucked away in safe environments in schools in Malaysia, America,London or India: Junaid Qureshi
— ANI (@ANI_news) July 9, 2016
08.15 pm: We picked up guns 26 years ago, what have we achieved? People died. This must end. And to be on the table you have to deserve a place to be there and must be ready with your arguments: Junaid Qureshi
08.10 pm: I appeal to the people of Kashmir to main peace and law and order situation in the state, said Rajnath Singh
I appeal to the people of Kashmir to main peace and law and order situation in the state: HM Rajnath Singh pic.twitter.com/yREMi262C4
— ANI (@ANI_news) July 9, 2016
07. 55 pm: We must understand that picking up guns is not the way which will get us somewhere: Junaid Qureshi
07.50 pm:

Many youth in Kashmir whether justified or not have lot of resentment-Junaid Qureshi(son of separatist leader Hashim Qureshi) on Burhan Wani
— ANI (@ANI_news) July 9, 2016
07.45 pm: I express profound grief over the tragic death of the youths and extend my heart-felt condolences to the bereaved family members in their hour of immense grief: J&K CM Mehbooba Mufti
07. 40 pm: Many youth in Kashmir whether justified or not have lot of resentment: Junaid Qureshi(son of separatist leader Hashim Qureshi) on Burhan Wani
07.20 pm: UGC-NET exams scheduled to be held for July 10 in Srinagar (J&K) postponed following the law and order situation in the state: ANI
07.00 pm: Tension prevailed in Bhaderwah town following announcement by Anjuman-e-Islamia from local Jama Masjid informing people that namaz-i-janaza of Burhan Wani will be offered after the evening prayers there
6:50 pm: We certainly don’t want to kill youngsters of our own society, says J&K Police ADGP on gunning down of Hizb militant Burhan Wani in encounter
06.25 pm: Amarnath Yatra will be resumed as soon as it is possible to ensure security of yatris, says J&K Police ADGP S M Sahai
06.20 pm: It is very unfortunate that young lives were lost in clashes, says J&K Police
06.15 pm: Situation tense in South Kashmir: Police at a press conference in Srinagar
06.10 pm: 94 security personnel injured during clashes: J&K police
06.06 pm: Three policemen missing, says J&K police at a press conference in Srinagar
05. 55 pm: 8 civilians killed, 3 policemen injured in clashes. Seven out of 8 killed due to retaliatory action, one civilian died due to drowning: J&K police at a press conference in Srinagar
05.10 pm: Except for Banihal town, where people observed bandh and took out a procession, Burhan Wani’s killing evoked no reaction elsewhere in Jammu region. However, authorities as a precautionary measure had suspended Amarnath pilgrimage and stopped movement of vehicular traffic on the national highway from Batote onwards towards Valley.
04.50 pm: In SMHS hospital, 12 injured patients received. One dead and one critical: Medical Superintendent
04.45 pm: Kashmiri activist Sushil Pandit congratulated the Indian security forces and requested the government not to hand over his body to his family, warning that it may inspire other youth to follow in the terrorists’ footsteps.
04.35 pm: The death toll has risen to five, 3 in Anantnag district and 2 in Kulgam district.
04.20 pm: Separatist leaders in Kashmir extend strike call for two more days, reports The Indian Express
04.05 pm: At least four people were killed and more than thirty people injured in the clashes which erupted across Kashmir valley, The Indian Express reports
03.55 pm: Operators say about 20 buses stranded on Pahalgam-Srinagar highway, tweets Indian Express reporter
03.45 pm: BJP general secretary Ram Madhav said that the killing of Wani must be seen as the government’s zero-tolerance policy towards terrorism, and described it to be a big breakthrough on the part of the security forces.
03.30 pm: Union Minister Jitendra Singh praised the security forces and said all sections of society must come together in the fight against terrorism, regardless of their political ideology. “The fight against terrorism is universal and it has to be fought collectively and all sections of society regardless of their ideology must come together and unitedly fight it,” he said.

03.15 pm: One person was killed and several others were injured during the clashes, reports ANI.
03.00 pm: A total of 25 people from different parts have been admitted to SMHS of which 5 are serious, said hospital authorities.
2.45 pm: Reacting to the death of Wani, Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said, “Burhan Wani was a terrorist and one who inflicts terror has to die some day.” The former minister also added that “a terrorist is a terrorist and there is no point mourning death of such a person.” (READ FULL STORY)
2.30 pm: Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah took to Twitter and said that Wani had become an ‘icon’ for the disaffected community after his death. (READ FULL STORY)
The story of Burhan Wani
Kashmir on boil after face of new militancy, Burhan Wani, is shot dead: Protests erupted across Kashmir on Friday after Burhan Wani, the 22-year-old Hizbul Mujahideen commander who was tagged as the poster boy on social media of militancy in the Valley, was shot dead along with two other militants by security forces and police in Bumdoora village, 85 km south of Srinagar. (READ FULL STORY)
The worry: What Burhan Wani’s death could give life to- On the surface, the killing of most wanted Burhan Muzaffar Wani in a joint operation by J&K police and Rashtriya Rifles in Kokernag today is a shot in the arm for the security establishment. But given the current ferment in the Valley, this watershed in the new phase of militancy may set off a new, more volatile phase. (READ FULL STORY)
