DU ordered to close evening law colleges ||||
 Delhi University has been asked by the Bar Council of India (BCI) to close the colleges offering law courses in evening shifts. According to the BCI, proper quality of legal education can not be ensured during evening and night classes, hence, such colleges should be closed. BCI is the apex regulatory body for legal education and profession in India. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/12820095-0011-0001-5900-000012345678||||
The Bar Council of India (BCI) has asked the Delhi University to shut down colleges offering law courses in evening shifts, saying such programmes does not ensure proper quality of legal education.
Taking into account that proper quality of legal education cannot be ensured if classes are run during evening and night hours, the Bar Council of India has taken a policy decision to dispense with the evening colleges.
“Two of your law colleges are offering classes beyond 9 PM which is in violation of the BCI directive…whatever may have been the reason for running these colleges, the same cannot be permitted henceforth,” a BCI communication sent to DU said.
The BCI also asked DU to issue a notification stating that no admissions be made for evening classes from the next year.
In an unprecedented move, the BCI, the apex regulatory body for legal education and legal profession in India, had in 2014 decided to derecognise DU’s law course after it failed to seek a timely extension of the affiliation of its three centres, namely Campus Law Centre, Law Centre-I and Law Centre-II.


Share This Article



Related Article For second year in a row, mass failure at DU's law faculty Almost half of DU law results have compartments, students protest Shut down colleges offering evening course: Bar Council to DU law faculty Law graduates of 70 colleges won’t be allowed to practiseNew graduates of Law Faculty not eligible to practise, says Bar Council BCI proposes bar council exam; sets no timeline
								jQuery(document).ready(function(){
									jQuery('.rel-article').bxSlider({
									maxSlides: 6,
									slideMargin: 3
									});
								});
								
However, it was granted a provisional extension of affiliation for the 2014-15 session after DU had proposed to shift to a new building which it claimed “had adequate space” for the faculty to run properly.
However, after a fresh inspection by a BCI panel, the council had noted that besides fresh violations, the illegalities earlier highlighted remain unattended.
Following this, the BCI issued it a show-cause notice to explain the “illegalities” in its functioning including more than permissible student strength, lack of infrastructure and faculty.
It also directed the university to send an undertaking of compliance with rules rectifying the anomalies within four
weeks.
Meanwhile, DU’s Dean of Faculty of Law Ashwini Kumar Bansal was not available for comments on the issue.
Eminent figures like Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, former HRD minister Kapil Sibal, Supreme Court Judge Rohinton Nariman, former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mayawati and former Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Ajit Jogi are among the Faculty of Law alumni.
