I am not pregnant, what I am is fed up: Aniston ||||
 Actress Jennifer Aniston has dismissed reports of her being pregnant adding that she is fed up with "the... scrutiny and body shaming that occurs daily under the guise of journalism". Speaking further about women and choices, she added, "We are complete with or without a mate, with or without a child... We get to determine our own happily ever after." ||||
 The Guardian ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/194d6b17-2e00-46e7-8a22-507d7bce3abb-1||||
News flash No 1: no, Jennifer Aniston is not pregnant.
News flash No 2: if she ever is in the family way, she will tell you first, honest.
Now, will you just leave the woman alone?
Or as she put it in a scathing online essay Tuesday: women “are complete with or without a mate, with or without a child. We get to decide for ourselves what is beautiful when it comes to our bodies ... We don’t need to be married or mothers to be complete. We get to determine our own ‘happily ever after’ for ourselves.”
Yes, she’s rich. Yes, she’s famous. Yes, she’s talented. Yes, she’s thin. Thin enough so that every burrito becomes a baby bump shortly after swallowing.
But the actor is also fed up enough to take on the tabloid press, which has focused its many lenses on her and her very flat belly for “the bajillionth time...but who’s counting”.
The latest swirl of pregnancy rumors led her to erupt in the Huffington Post about the corrosive nature of the “sport-like scrutiny and body shaming that occurs daily under the guise of ‘journalism’, the ‘First Amendment’, and ‘celebrity news’”.
It’s not, she pointed out, that there hasn’t been other news to cover beyond her non-pregnancy, her non-divorce, and did we mention her non-pregnancy?
“In this last boring news cycle about my personal life”, she wrote, “there have been mass shootings, wildfires, major decisions by the Supreme Court, an upcoming election, and any number of more newsworthy issues that ‘journalists’ could dedicate their resources towards.”
Google “Jennifer Aniston kids” and the results are horrifying. She is variously “expecting a boy”, “adopting two girls”, “welcoming first child via surrogate” and, with husband, Justin Theroux has “decided to adopt kids to save their marriage”.
No wonder she’s annoyed.
Women like her – and you and your mom and your sister and your grandmother – are being judged daily, she writes, by a toxic standard of beauty and cultural norms that “define a woman’s value based on her marital and maternal status”.
In other words, you have to be thin. And pregnant.
“I used to tell myself that tabloids were like comic books, not to be taken seriously, just a soap opera for people to follow when they need a distraction,” she fumed. “But I really can’t tell myself that anymore because the reality is the stalking and objectification I’ve experienced first-hand, going on decades now, reflects the warped way we calculate a woman’s worth.”
At 47, Aniston is nearing the average of menopause for US women – not that that’s any of your business either. Although she does say in her rebuke to the tabloids that “yes, I may be a mother some day, and since I’m laying it all out there, I’ll be the first to let you know. But I’m not in pursuit of motherhood because I feel incomplete in some way.”
Along with her anger, though, Aniston did express a sliver of hope that women – famous and otherwise – could actually fight back.
“We get to decide how much we buy into what’s being served up,” she wrote, “and maybe some day the tabloids will be forced to see the world through a different, more humanized lens because consumers have just stopped buying the bullshit.”
