Determined to make Arunachal 'BJP mukt': Cong ||||
 Asserting that the Congress MLAs are ready for the floor test in Arunachal Pradesh, party state President Padi Richo on Friday said they are determined to make the state 'BJP mukt'. "We have 45 MLAs... tomorrow, we will teach BJP and RSS a lesson," he added. This comes after Governor Tathagata Roy ordered a floor test on Jul 16. ||||
 ANI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/53fac4f5-bb6d-4b64-bae1-80635b73a17c-1||||
Itanagar (Arunachal Pradesh), July 15 (ANI): Congress state president Padi Richo on Friday said all the MLAs are united and are ready to face the floor-test, adding that they are determined to make the state 'BJP mukht'.
Responding to a poser regarding the possibilities of winning the floor test, Richo said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) will be taught a lesson leading to BJP -free Arunachal.
"We have 45 MLAs. Out of 60, we all are united and together. We are ready for the floor test. If there will be session tomorrow, we will teach BJP and RSS a lesson, it won't be Congress mukht (free), but BJP mukth (free)," he added.
Earlier today, acting Governor Tathagata Roy asked Chief Minister Nabam Tuki to prove his majority on the floor of the House on Saturday.
Richo accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP of planning to dislodge the non-BJP ruled states, adding that Arunachal was also a victim of the plan.
"Modi and BJP are planning how to dislodge the non-BJP government, how they did so 6-7 months before," he said.
The sequence of events comes a day after the Supreme Court ruled status quo ante and restored the Nabam Tuki government.
Arunachal Pradesh had been under President's Rule since January 26.
Tuki-led Congress government was dismissed following days of turmoil after 21 of its 47 lawmakers rebelled against the chief minister.
The Congress, which had 47 MLAs seats in the 60-member assembly, suffered a jolt when 21 of its lawmakers rebelled. Eleven BJP MLAs backed the rebels in the bid to upstage the government. Later, 14 rebel Congress MLAs were disqualified. (ANI)
