Abe praises Modi's speed of implementing policy ||||
 Japanese PM Shinzo Abe praised PM Narendra Modi for his vision of India's economic growth and compared his speed of implementing policies to a bullet train. He said it was "high speed, safe and reliable and carrying many people along. He further said the country has "made available a special financial framework...for (Japanese) companies making new investments in India". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/03377803-0006-0012-1744-000012345678||||
Japanese Premier Shinzo Abe, who is on a three-day visit to India for the 9th annual Indo-Japan summit talks, on Saturday complimented Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his vision of India’s growth and said that his speed of implementing policies is like a bullet train.
“PM Narendra Modi’s economic policies are like Shinkansen – high speed, safe and reliable and carrying many people along,” said Abe referring to the world-famous bullet train service in Japan.
“A strong India is good for Japan and a strong Japan is good for India,” he added.
Abe made the remarks while addressing the Business Leaders Forum in New Delhi along with PM Modi.
In return, PM Modi said the economic analysis that has come from Japan is very encouraging.
“In India, also the growth indicators are very encouraging. We are a land of opportunities. Technology is our strength,” he said.
He added that for the first time, Japan will import Maruti Suzuki cars from India.
The Prime Minister remarked that a $12 billion fund has been envisaged for the ‘Make in India’ movement in Japan.
On Friday, ahead of Abe’s arrival in India, PM Modi had called him a great friend and a phenomenal leader. Both leaders have met several times at different venues after PM Modi assumed power in India last year.
Abe’s visit is likely to deliver tangible outcomes on the $34 billion investment pledge that he had made during PM Modi’s visit to Japan. Deals on high-speed bullet rail and a civil nuclear deal are likely to be announced in the coming days.
Top sources told The Indian Express that officials are working on a possible breakthrough on the “tracking” of nuclear fuel — a sensitive subject for both India and Japan.
After the summit talks with PM Modi in New Delhi, Abe is scheduled to proceed to Varanasi, PM Modi’s parliamentary constituency and will attend the aarti on the banks of River Ganges.
