Lightning strikes kill 40, injure 35 in Odisha ||||
 As many as 40 people were killed and 36 others were seriously injured by lightning strikes in several places across Odisha on Saturday. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has announced compensation of 50,000 to the kin of those killed in the lightning strikes. Notably, lightning strikes had killed 46 people in Bihar and 42 people in Uttar Pradesh last month. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/279f00bf-bb69-4ca2-b850-601e4909f558-1||||
At least 29 people were killed after being struck by lightning in different parts of Odisha on Saturday, police said.
While the maximum number of eight deaths were reported from Bhadrak district, there were seven casualties in Balasore district, five in Khurda, three in Mayurbhanj, three in Jajpur and one each in Kendrapara, Keonjhar and Nayagarh, police said.
Expressing sorrow over the deaths, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik directed the special relief commissioner (SRC) to immediately provide assistance to the bereaved families in accordance with the relief code, CM’s office said in a statement.
Of the eight deaths reported from Bhadrak, two women died in separate lightning incidents at Kusananagar and Panibhandar villages, while another woman was killed in Balichaturi village, police said.
The rest five died at Bisalpata, Banta, Tihidi, Bansada and Chandbali areas of Bhadrak district, they said adding at least three persons were injured in incidents of lightning in there. In Balasore district, two persons were killed and another was injured at Angula village, while one person was killed in lightning at nearby Jaganathpur village in Soro block, said Priyabrata Parhi, Tahasildar of Soro.
The mishap occurred while all of them were working in a paddy field. Elsewhere in the district, four persons, including a woman, were killed and at least 14 injured in different areas under Jaleswar block, Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) of Jaleswar, Satya Ranjan Mallick said.
Most of them were working in paddy fields, he said. In Mayurbhanj district, a Class X girl was killed in Thakurmunda area, while two farmers working in the field died in lightning in Suliapada area, police said.
Watch Video: What’s making news 

In Khurda district, one person died due to lightning at Jamujhari village, while four others were killed near Sundarpur village. Eight persons were injured in Balipatapur village of Khurda, police said.
In Keonjhar district, a man was killed due to lightning in Dantia village of Ramachandrapur area, while five persons were injured at Angarua village, police said. In Jajpur district, a farmer died at Sodi village under Panikoili police station limit as lightning struck when he was working in the field.
Similarly, one person was killed at Mangalpur village in Mahakalapada police station jurisdiction of Kendrapara district, police said.
In Nayagarh district, one cyclist was killed and another injured after being hit by a thunderbolt during the day, district police said.
