Maharaja Modi giving sermons: Mamata Banerjee ||||
 Trinamool Congress Chief Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying, "Maharaja Modi is giving sermons. His government has reduced interest rates on small savings, stopped PF withdrawals, slashed funds for welfare programmes." Speaking on the Congress-Left alliance, she said, "They are behaving as if they are young lovers moving around holding each others hand." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/67707348-0015-0004-1169-000012345678||||
Accusing Narendra Modi government of reducing interest rate on small savings and slashing funds for welfare programmes, Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the prime minister was giving sermons while Congress and the Left were busy lodging complaints against her.
“Maharaj Modi is giving sermons. His government has reduced interest rates on small savings, stopped PF withdrawals, slashed funds for welfare programmes,” she told an election meeting here.
“Delhi is unleashing terror and atrocity. Nobody has seen such a thing during any election earlier. But I have accepted their challenge. I will not bow down to anyone,” Banerjee said.
In an obvious reference to Election Commission’s showcause notice to her, the TMC supremo said “They are issuing letter. Removing officers. Where were they during the 34 years of CPI-M misrule?”
Turning to the opposition charge of corruption against TMC, Banerjee said her government had arrested Saradha group chief. “Did the Centre take any steps? Only TMC is thief, and you all are sages.”
Reiterating her barbs against Congress-Left alliance, the TMC supremo said “CPI-M is now riding piggyback on Congress. They are behaving as if they are young lovers moving around holding each other’s hand.”
She said the alliance’s only task was to lodge complaints against her with Election Commission.
“But after election they will sleep. We will provide them with pillows,” the TMC chief said.
Banerjee said her government had given back the people their political right which was taken away by the previous Left Front government.
“Our government had taken action whenever there was an incident including the rape in Kamduni,” she said.
Banerjee also criticised the role of a media house saying that their job was to defame the state “even if you do good work.”
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
