Tanzanian woman assault: 2 policemen suspended ||||
 Four more people have been detained and two police officials suspended after a Tanzanian student was allegedly assaulted and stripped by a mob in Bengaluru. A total of nine people have been detained after the alleged assault. The incident occurred after a Sudanese man ran his car over a local and a mob assumed the Tanzanian student was with him. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/76376117-0012-0002-0008-000012345678||||
Asking students from his country to respect the local community, their laws and leaders, Tanzania’s High Commissioner to India John W H Kijazi Friday expressed confidence in measures taken to address the fallout of the January 31 assault on a Tanzanian woman student by a mob following a fatal road accident here.
Watch video (App users click here)
“Follow the laws of the country. Live in harmony with the local people (and) respect the leadership of the state,” Kijazi said, addressing people from his country studying here. “Respect the leadership of the local communities.”
Accompanied by a team of officials from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Kijazi Friday met Karnataka Home Minister G Parameshwara and police officials in Bengaluru.
“We are impressed with the action taken,’’ the high commissioner said after the meeting. “We went into the facts of the situation and are very impressed with the action of the government.” He also called for focus on the future of harmonious coexistence with locals for Tanzanians and students from other African nations in Bengaluru, as also other cities of India.
Noting that some confidence-building measures have been taken to prevent recurrence of such incidents, he said some of the officials have been suspended and action has been initiated against others.
MEA Joint Secretary Partha Satpathy said the ministry is assisting the high commissioner in his interactions with the state government.
Two policemen, including an inspector at Soladevanahalli police station, were suspended by Bengaluru City Police Commissioner N S Megharikh Friday on charges of dereliction of duty for failing to act effectively during and after the mob assault on a Tanzanian student.
Police Inspector G Praveen Babu registered a case on January 31 in connection with a mob setting fire to a car driven by the Tanzanian student, but did not probe the case further. Constable Manjunath, who was at the spot on his motorcycle, did not report the matter to his superior officers, the commissioner said.
A Tanzanian student and her male friend were assaulted by a mob after an accident involving a car driven by a Sudanese student, in which a 35-year-old woman, who was a local resident, was killed in the Soladevanahalli area.
“The police inspector and constable have been suspended for dereliction of duty in connection with the assault on Tanzanian students, including a woman, on January 31,” Megharikh said.
Strict action will be taken, says Rahul
New Delhi: Having come under attack from the BJP for being silent on the Tanzanian student issue, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi on Friday said strict action will be taken by the Congress government in Karnataka in the case. ENS
