JNU rusticates Umar, Anirban; Kanhaiya fined ||||
 A JNU Enquiry Committee on Monday rusticated Umar Khalid for one semester for organising the 'pro-Afzal Guru event' on campus on February 9. JNUSU President Kanhaiya Kumar was fined 10,000 for violating disciplinary norms. The committee suspended Anirban Bhattacharya till July 15 and barred him from pursuing any course in JNU for the next five years. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/91706038-0013-0004-1937-000012345678||||
Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Monday rusticated three students, including Anirban Bhattacharya and Umar Khalid, in connection with the February 9 event on campus where “anti-national” slogans were allegedly raised. The university also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) president Kanhaiya Kumar.
The decision was taken after the high-level inquiry committee, set up to look into the matter, submitted its report on March 11. Responding to the decision, the JNUSU “rejected” the move by the administration and held a meeting late on Monday to chart their course of action.
According to orders issued by the chief proctor’s office, Anirban has been rusticated till July 15 while Umar has been rusticated for one semester. He has also been fined Rs 20,000. Anirban has been given nine days to submit his PhD thesis, following which he will be declared “out of bounds from the entire JNU campus” from July 25 onwards.


Share This Article



Related Article JNU blocks registration of Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya, 18 others ‘Anti-national’ slogan raising man still active on campus: JNU Joint Secy Saurabh Sharma JNU: Umar, Anirban challenge rustication, Delhi HC refuses to give interim relief Students, teachers protest JNU action Kanhaiya, others reject JNU probe panel report; to go on hunger strike Students' previous record taken into account: JNU on Afzal Guru row punishment
								jQuery(document).ready(function(){
									jQuery('.rel-article').bxSlider({
									maxSlides: 6,
									slideMargin: 3
									});
								});
								
“Kashmiri research scholar Mujeeb Gattoo has also been rusticated for two semesters after being found ‘guilty’ of ‘participating in objectionable sloganeering during the event’,” said an official.
He added, “The university has also decided to withdraw hostel facilities of two students and imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on both. While former JNUSU president Ashutosh Kumar’s hostel facility has been withdrawn for a year, another student Komal Mohite — one of the organisers — has been barred from staying in the hostel till July 1.”
The administration also debarred two former students — Banojyotsana Lahiri and Drupadi Ghosh — from entering the campus for the next five years.
It also imposed fines on 14 other students, including JNUSU joint secretary Saurabh Sharma from the ABVP.
Among those who have been fined Rs 20,000 are current and former JNUSU office bearers — Rama Naga, Chintu Kumari and Anant Prakash Narayan — and event organisers Reyazul Haque and Rubina Saifi. GSCASH representative Aishwarya Adhikari, whose name was not mentioned in the report, has also been fined Rs 20,000 along with her sister.
In a statement, JNU said, “The committee arrived at its conclusion based on depositions, video clips and documents. As per the findings, application for holding the event ‘circumvented’ the ‘permission process’ and ‘the organisers disobeyed instructions.”
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
