White House intruder in American flag arrested ||||
 A man covered in the American flag jumped over the fence to gain access to the North Grounds of the White House premises before being arrested by the secret service during Thanksgiving celebrations. The incident happened when United States President Barack Obama and his family had assembled for the 'annual turkey pardon' tradition of the National Thanksgiving Turkey Presentation. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/35856604-0014-0011-9937-000012345678||||
A man, draped in American flag, was arrested after he jumped a White House fence while President Barack Obama and his family were celebrating Thanksgiving, prompting a temporary lock-down.
The man identified as Joseph Caputo was immediately apprehended by the US Secret Service after he scaled the fence of the highly secure complex yesterday. Criminal changes are pending against him. “Today at approximately 2:45 pm, Joseph Caputo scaled over the north fence line of the White House Complex gaining access to the North Grounds. Caputo was immediately apprehended and taken into custody,” the Secret Service said in a statement.
“Criminal charges are pending at this time. The north and south fence lines have been temporarily closed,” the statement said. A bystander snapped photos of Caputo, draped in an American flag, as he hopped the fence. A second photo shows the him with his arms raised as he walks on the lawn. He also had a binder of some sort clenched in his teeth as he made the leap.
A car with Connecticut plates was later towed from near the White House, media reports said. An extra seven inches of spike was added to the top of the fence after at least three prior incidents of people breaching the perimeter at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue just this year alone.
On Wednesday, President Obama held the annual turkey pardon ahead of Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving Day is a national holiday celebrated in the US and Canada. It was originally celebrated as a day of giving thanks for the blessing of the harvest and of the preceding year.
