SC extends Subrata Roys parole till July 11 ||||
 The Supreme Court on Wednesday extended Sahara Group chief Subrata Roys parole till July 11. The court directed him to file an undertaking to deposit 200 crore with capital markets regulator Sebi by then as a condition for the parole extension. Earlier, the apex court had on May 6 granted Roy a four-week parole to perform his mothers last rites. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/93a3c342-f444-4f24-9ddd-c4e32026bac4-1||||
Inclined to “give one chance” to Sahara chief Subrata Roy, the Supreme Court Wednesday extended his parole till July 11 to enable the group to deposit Rs 200 crore with Sebi. The parole, granted to Roy and two other directors of Sahara following the death of his mother, was set to expire on June 4.
While extending the time period, a bench led by Chief Justice T S Thakur directed Roy and Sahara Group director Ashok Roy Choudhary to furnish individual undertakings to prove their bonafide and seriousness.
Roy and the directors were put behind the bars since March 2014 on the orders of the apex court over their reported failure to repay the investors and deposit money with the Sebi.
On Wednesday, the bench, also comprising justices A R Dave and A K Sikri, made it clear that Roy would have to go back to prison if he fails to deposit Rs 200 crore by July 11. “You must stick to your promises now. Earlier promises were broken. We hope you would not want to go back (to jail),” the bench told Roy’s counsel Kapil Sibal.


Share This Article



Related Article SC extends Subrata Roy's parole, asks him to deposit Rs 300 cr Supreme Court extends Sahara chief Subrata Roy’s parole; seeks Rs 300 cr more by August 3 SC asks Sahara group to furnish details of all properties, Subrata Roy seeks parole Subrata Roy's Sahara group overvalued properties: SEBI to Supreme Court Sahara seeks modification in SC order barring Subrata Roy to go abroad Sahara India Pariwar faces Supreme Court crackdown,Subrata Roy barred from leaving India
								jQuery(document).ready(function(){
									jQuery('.rel-article').bxSlider({
									maxSlides: 6,
									slideMargin: 3
									});
								});
								
Sibal assured the bench that the group will deposit Rs 200 crore with SEBI by July 11 and another Rs 200-300 crore could be arranged by August 4 if the court extends the parole further. The bench replied that it would examine the plea for grant of parole till August 4 after Roy and the group are able to fulfill their commitment by July 11.
It also said Roy was free to meet prospective buyers of properties and move within the country in police escort as per May 6 order. The police chiefs of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh will have to be kept informed about his movements, the court said.
While Sebi would continue with the auction of properties of Sahara, the bench said that Sahara could also go ahead with the sale and alienation of their other properties to raise the amount of Rs 5000 crore as a bank guarantee they have to deposit in addition to Rs 5,000 crore to get regular bail.
The order was passed after Sibal requested for the reprieve, saying properties could not be sold because the real estate market was down and that more money could be raised only if Roy is allowed to stay outside and negotiate.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
