SC to consider plea to hold NEET in 6 languages ||||
 The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it will consider the Centre's plea seeking permission to hold the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions to MBBS and BDS in six vernacular languages. The Centre had earlier moved the apex court seeking permission to conduct the examination in Tamil, Telugu, Marathi, Assamese, Bengali, and Gujarati. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ed400384-dce8-4f3c-b6b1-46958c82964d-1||||
The Supreme Court Tuesday said it will consider Centre’s plea seeking permission to hold the entrance examination for MBBS and BDS for the academic year 2016-17 in six vernacular languages — Tamil, Telugu, Marathi, Assamese, Bengali and Gujarati.
A plea in this regard was mentioned before a bench headed by Justice A R Dave by Solicitor General Ranjit Kumar who said the order passed yesterday for holding the entrance through National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) did not record anything on the issue of vernacular language.
The bench said, “We have left it to you.” The bench, also comprising justices Shiva Kirti Singh and
A K Goel may take up the matter shortly. The same bench had yesterday had said the Centre and the CBSE will conduct a single common entrance test for admission to MBBS and BDS courses through NEET.
WATCH | SC Allows Students Who Appeared In NEET-I To Attempt Phase-II
It had rejected the pleas of the state governments, private institutions and minority institutions for allowing to conduct separate entrance test.
The apex court had put to rest all confusion by refusing to modify its April 28 order by which it had allowed Centre and CBSE to conduct a single common entrance test for admission to MBBS and BDS courses through NEET.
The top court had approved the schedule put before it by the Centre, CBSE and Medical Medical Council of India (MCI) for treating All India Pre-Medical Test (AIPMT) fixed for May 1 as NEET-1. Those who have not applied for AIPMT will be given opportunity to appear in NEET-II on July 24 and the combined result would be declared on August 17 so that the admission process can be completed by September 30.
Around 6.5 lakh students took up the NEET-I test held on May 1.
