Pune man loses leg post botched-up surgery ||||
 A Pune family lodged a police complaint against a doctor from Yeshwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital on Tuesday after a 30-year-old man lost his leg to a botched up surgery conducted to treat his varicose vein. The man, a farmer and father of three school-going girls, underwent the operation in September but couldn't recover post which his right leg was amputated. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/69338815-0011-0001-6370-000012345678||||
A 30-year-old man from Shrirur lost his leg after a “botched-up” surgery at Yeshwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital run by the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. The family of Balasaheb Dhendge filed a police complaint Tuesday against the doctor concerned.
Dhendge was admitted on September 16 as he was finding it difficult to walk due to a vericose vein problem. The operation was performed a week later, after which it led to complications. “There was swelling and my leg had turned black and blue,” said Dhendge, a marginal farmer and father of three school-going girls.
Dhengde’s sister Seema Pawar said when they tried to find out the reasons from the doctors, they remained evasive. “It was clear that they had botched up the surgery. But the hospital was not able to take any corrective steps,” she said.
Pawar said by the time senior surgeon Sanjay Padale was handed over the case, it was too late. “We were told that my brother’s leg would have to be amputed and there was no other option. If it wouldn’t be severed, it would affect other organs and that could proved fatal,” she said.
Dhendge was finally operated upon during which his right leg was severed. Padale said, “Dhendge’s case had become complicated and that’s why he had to amputate the leg. However, the doctors who earlier operated upon Dhendge should not be held entirely responsbile as they had tried their best to treat him.”
Dhendge said he was operated upon by then senior surgeon Mangesh Panse in 2009 for the same vericose veins problems but had “recovered fully after that”.
Municipal Commissioner Rajeev Jadhav said they were investigating the case. He said the PCMC standing committee had sanctioned Rs 3 lakh as immediately financial assistance to the Dhenge family.
