'Need another birth to compete with Rajinikanth' ||||
 Actor Irrfan Khan has said that there is no competition between him and actor Rajinikanth adding that he will need to take another birth to compete with him. Irrfan's 'Madaari' and Rajinikanth's 'Kabali' will both release on July 22. Irrfan added, "It is not a clash, he is a big actor... known across the globe. I can't be his equal." ||||
 The Financial Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/22d5686f-9c10-49e2-877d-15b671f71ccb-1||||
As their movies get set to tussle for primacy at the box office office, with their respective films Kabali and Madaari, Bollywood actor Irrfan Khan, says there is no competition as far as Rajinikanth is concerned – in fact, it is billed as a fight between David and Goliath and no, no change in the ancient story's script is expected.
According to Irrfan, known for his differentiated roles in the movies that he has done so far, he is ready to throw in the towel as his powers over his fans and discerning movie-goers is limited while Rajinikanth has a massive following across the world.
Going further, Irrfan Khan does not believe there will ever be a time in this lifetime of his in which he will be able to beat the southern star. Irrfan said he will need at least another lifetime to even begin competing with him.
Both Irrfan's 'Madaari' and Rajinikanth's 'Kabali' release dates are July 22. While Irrfan would be glad he did not run into Salman Khan's Sultan at the box office, yet he would definitely have wished he could have avoided Rajinikanth too. However, the impact from Sultan would have been much worse as Rajinikanth is a big star down south, while Salman is a an icon in north India.
However, that does not Irrfan from thinking it is his good fortune that his movie is releasing alongside Rajinikanth's.
Here is what a rueful Irrfan Khan said, "It is not a clash, he is a big man, a big actor who is known across the globe. I can't be his equal. My film is coming with his, which is my good fortune.”
Irrfan, while speaking at the special screening of his movie for children, also said, "We will be happy if our film earns a little bit more money than what we have invested... I respect him a lot as a person. I need to take another birth to compete with him".
Madaari is directed by Nishikant Kamat, and among the cast is Jimmy Shergill.
