Bipasha ties the knot with Karan Singh Grover ||||
 Actress Bipasha Basu tied the knot with actor Karan Singh Grover on Saturday in a private ceremony at a hotel in south Mumbai. The wedding, which was conducted as per Bengali rituals, was attended only by the couple's family members and close friends. It was followed by a reception held in the evening at a hotel in the city. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/9f11b2f7-809c-459b-87d4-3a1c5ce822cd-1||||

Actress Bipasha Basu and fiance Karan Singh Grover tied the knot today (April 30) according to Bengali tradition. Newlyweds Bipasha and Karan came out to pose for the waiting journalists and photographers. (Source: Varinder Chawla)
Actress Bipasha Basu and fiance Karan Singh Grover tied the knot today (April 30) according to Bengali tradition. Newlyweds Bipasha and Karan came out to pose for the waiting journalists and photographers.
Bipasha Basu was glowing in a red Sabyasachi lehenga as she was dressed as a true Bengali bride. She wore heavily embellished golden lehenga.
Bipasha wore heavy kundan jewellery, nath bangles and mang patti.
Karan Singh Grover, who was wearing a white sherwani, entered amid the sounds of dhols riding a segway.
#KaranSinghGrover enters on a Segway at his wedding!!! @bipsluvurself @Iamksgofficial #BipashaKaranWedding pic.twitter.com/MZuSMvlJKO
— Anushka Arora (@Anushka_Arora) April 30, 2016
Bipasha Basu’s ex and now close friend Dino Morea was one of the early guests to arrive for the wedding. He was dapper in black.
Newlyweds with Candice Pinto and her friend.
Groom Karan Singh Grover’s selfie with a friend.
The vehicle on which Karan Singh Grover arrived for his wedding with @bipsluvurself pic.twitter.com/rLCBpTfD85
— IE entertainment (@ieEntertainment) April 30, 2016
Later in the evening, the couple will be hosting a grand reception party for their close friends from Bollywood and family members at a high-end hotel in Mumbai.
A day before the wedding, Bipasha and Karan had a mehendu and sangeet ceremony at Villa 69 in Mumbai. Bipasha opted for a pink lehenga and floral pattern jewellery for the function.

Also read: Karan Singh Grover, Bipasha Basu’s mehendi ceremony: All that happened
Her function was attended by her industry friends Shilpa Shetty Kundra, husband Raj Kundra, sister Shamita Shetty, Rocky S and Sophie Choudry.
Bipasha Basu, Karan Singh Grover At The Mehendi Ceremony
Also read: Karan will perform for Bipasha at the wedding, says bride-to-be’s mother
The 37-year-old actress looked radiant with heena in her palms.
A traditional Bengali ritual was also held at her residence yesterday.
See: Pics Of Bipasha Basu, Karan Singh Grover’s Mehendi: Shilpa Shetty, Sophie Choudry Attend The ceremony
It is Bipasha’s first marriage while Karan will be tying the knot for the third time. He was previously married to TV actresses Shraddha Nigam and Jennifer Winget.
Bipasha’s Mehendi Ceremony: Watch All The Action Here
Also read: Charity to keep Shilpa Shetty away from Bipasha Basu’s wedding
Also read: We are not nervous, we are very happy: Bipasha Basu and Karan Singh Grover
