Gadkar's driving license revoked for life ||||
 The driving license of Mumbai advocate Janhavi Gadkar was on Monday revoked for life by the Wadala RTO after she failed to appear for appeals twice. Allegedly driving under the influence of alcohol, Gadkar rammed her car into a taxi in June 2015, killing two people. Last month, the Appellate Authority had asked the RTO to reconsider the revocation order. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/35858588-0016-0001-7069-000012345678||||
AFTER she failed to appear on two separate dates for appeals, the Regional Transport Office (RTO) on Monday finally revoked for life the driving licence of advocate Janhavi Gadkar whose overspeeding car killed two people last year.
On September 14 last year, the Wadala RTO had revoked her licence and termed her “a reckless and dangerous driver”. The agency officially wrote to her informing that her driving rights were being taken back.
Gadkar, 35, was allegedly overspeeding and was under the influence of alcohol when she collided with a taxi, while driving on the wrong side of the Eastern Express Freeway on June 10 last year, killing the driver and a passenger and injuring three persons. She spent 58 days in prison. The court allowed her bail against a surety of Rs 30,000 on August 5. The corporate lawyer has been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and rash driving.
She spent 58 days in prison. The court allowed her bail against a surety of Rs 30,000 on August 5. The corporate lawyer has been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and rash driving.
RTO officials said that the driving licence revocation order passed earlier by the concerned Wadala RTO was sent back by Appellate Authority for reconsideration. “We have finally re-confirmed our order about revocation. The driver’s licence of Janhavi Gadkar stands revoked from today,” said B I Ajri, in charge of central region of RTO.
Following her appeal process, Wadala RTO officials have claimed that Gadkar was summoned twice but was not present for either of the hearing. “Gadkar was first called on December 29, 2015 and then this past Thursday on January 7,” Ajri said.
