Man detained for trying to strangulate Kanhaiya ||||
 Mumbai airport police on Sunday detained a man after he tried to strangulate JNU Students' Union President Kanhaiya Kumar on a Jet Airways flight. Kanhaiya and the attacker were deplaned following the assault. "Manas Deka, works in TCS, a strong BJP supporter assaulted me inside the aircraft. Is assault the only tool you have, to fight dissent?" Kanhaiya tweeted later. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/80891080-0006-0004-1707-000012345678||||
JNU Students Union president Kanhaiya Kumar Sunday said that a co-passenger allegedly tried to attack him on a flight from Mumbai to Pune.
A man identified as Manas Jyoti Deka has been detained in connection with the incident, police said, adding no FIR has been so far registered.
“A person has been detained for allegedly attacking Kanhaiya onboard a Pune-bound flight. The matter is being probed further,” a senior police official said.
Later, Kanhaiya was offloaded by the airline citing safety, forcing him to take the road route to Pune.
Kanhaiya, who hit the headlines after being arrested on charges of sedition in the aftermath of an event on the JNU campus where alleged anti-India slogans were raised, said in a tweet, “Yet again, this time inside the aircraft, a man tries to strangulate me”.
The man’s attempt to attack Kanhaiya was evaded by his colleagues who were on the same flight, according to All India Students’ Federation national president Syed Waliullah Kadri.
“Kanhaiya, I and two others from JNU had boarded the flight from Mumbai. This man suddenly got up and tried to attack Kanhaiya,” Kadri claimed.
Following the ruckus, the four approached Mumbai Airport authorities to file a complaint in this regard.
“After the incident @jetairways staff completely refuses to take any action against the man who assaulted me,” Kanhaiya alleged in another tweet.
After the incident @jetairways staff completely refuses to take any action against the man who assaulted me.
— Kanhaiya Kumar (@kanhaiyajnusu) April 24, 2016
 
Hitting out at the airline further, Kanhaiya also said that it sees no difference between “someone who assaults and one who is assaulted”. He appeared to also suggest that the one who is attacked will be “deplaned” by the service provider “if he complains about it”.
“Basically @jetairways sees no difference between someone who assaults nd d person who is assaulted. They will deplane you, if you complain,” the 29-year-old student union leader said in another tweet.
Basically @jetairways sees no difference between someone who assaults nd d person who is assaulted. They will deplane you, if you complain.
— Kanhaiya Kumar (@kanhaiyajnusu) April 24, 2016
Manas Deka, works in TCS, a strong BJP supporter assaulted me inside the aircraft. Is assault the only tool you have, to fight dissent?
— Kanhaiya Kumar (@kanhaiyajnusu) April 24, 2016
These cowardly incidents are not going to scare us. I will be there in Pune! Join us!
— Kanhaiya Kumar (@kanhaiyajnusu) April 24, 2016
Meanwhile, Jet, in a statement, said some guests on board flight 9W618, Mumbai to Pune, have been offloaded in the interest of operational safety.
“Some guests on board Jet Airways fight 9W618 from Mumbai to Pune have been off loaded at Mumbai airport in the interest of operational safety. At Jet Airways, the safety and security of our guests and crew is always of prime importance,” the spokesman added.
He is scheduled to attend an event in Pune later in the day.
 
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
