OIC asked India to enact J&K UN resolutions: Pak ||||
 Pakistan on Sunday claimed that the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) has called on India to implement UN resolutions in Jammu and Kashmir. The OIC expressed concern at the alleged "violations of human rights" and called on the UN to "guarantee Kashmiris right to self-determination, said the Pakistan Foreign Office. Leaders from over 30 countries attended the 13th OIC summit. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/91278966-0011-0004-0674-000012345678||||
Pakistan on Sunday claimed that the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) has called on India to implement UN resolutions in Jammu and Kashmir and expressed concern at the ‘violations of human rights’ in the state.
In a statement issued in Islamabad, the Pakistan Foreign Office said, “the 13th OIC Summit, held in Istanbul from 10-15 April, called on India to implement pending UN Security Council resolutions on Jammu and Kashmir, expressed concern at the gross violations of human rights committed” in Kashmir.
It said the OIC also “affirmed support to the Kashmir struggle, which could not be equated with terrorism and called upon the UN for implementation of the Security Council’s relevant Resolutions on Kashmir which call for the resolution of the dispute and guarantee Kashmiris’ (inalienable) right to self-determination through a UN supervised plebiscite.”
In the Joint communique issued by the Summit, the OIC “reaffirmed that Jammu and Kashmir is the core dispute between India and Pakistan and its resolution is imperative for bringing peace in South Asia,” the FO said.
It welcomed the establishment of a standing mechanism by the OIC Independent Permanent Human Rights Commission (IPHRC) for monitoring the human rights situation in Kashmir and called upon India to allow the OIC Fact Finding Mission and the international human rights groups and humanitarian organisations access to Kashmir.
It appealed to the Member States and Muslim Institutions to grant scholarships to Kashmiri students in different Universities and institutions in OIC Countries.
Also, the OIC Secretary General presented a report to the Summit in which he highlighted that Jammu and Kashmir issue as an unresolved issue.
