BrahMos integrated with IAF's fighter jet ||||
 Supersonic cruise missile system BrahMos was successfully integrated with the Sukhoi-30MKI frontline strike fighter of the Indian Air Force for an air-launched flight test programme on Friday. With its completion, a final test-firing of the BrahMos from the Sukhoi-30MKI remains to be conducted, post which the IAF will become the first in the world with a supersonic cruise missile system. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/5a19cd74-a5cd-4e4c-a24b-35ca8099ff47-1||||
BrahMos Aerospace today demonstrated the integration of world's most formidable supersonic cruise missile system BRAHMOS on Su-30MKI frontline strike fighter of the Indian Air Force.
The demonstration flight carried out at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) in Nashik, with BRAHMOS weapon on the long-range Sukhoi-30 fighter, giving a major fillip to the BRAHMOS air-launched flight test programme.
After this successful launch, the Brahmos air version programme is a step closer to the actual test firing wherein a 2.5-ton BRAHMOS air-to-ground missile will be fired from the Sukhoi-30. The powerful missile will help the Indian Air Forcs to strike a deadly blow at the enemy's vital installations from stand-off ranges. The integration brings a paradigm shift in the capability of the IAF vis-à-vis its adversaries.
HOW WILL IT HELP THE AIR FORCE
The Su-30-BRAHMOS combination will carry out air combat operations within and beyond visibility range. It will also provide the IAF with the capability of attacking targets protected by powerful air defence assets. Integration of BRAHMOS with the Su-30MKI will render the weapon a multi-platform capability while making the IAF the only Air Force in the world in procession of a supersonic cruise missile system.
Today's flight trial has been keenly observed by several other nations in the world in possession of the Su-30 strike fighter who are looking towards acquiring a lethal weapon system for the Russian-made warplanes.
WHO WAS PRESENT AT THE DEMONSTRATION
The dignitaries present at today's flight launch were T Suvarna Raju(CMD, HAL) , Sudhir Kumar Mishra (CEO and MD, BrahMos Aerospace) and Daljeet Singh (CEO HAL Nasik).
Dr S Christopher, Secretary, DRDO congratulated the team. He has continuously motivated and guided the BrahMos team to achieve the design capability of the Brahmos airborne missile system and personally reviewed engineering activities.
S K Mishra, , congratulated the Joint team of HAL, DRDO, IAF and BrahMos for achieving this technological feat which will go down in history as first integration of supersonic cruise missile and long range fighter aircraft.
