Andhra govt starts work from new capital ||||
 The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday officially started functioning from the state's new capital Amaravati. Four departments of the state Secretariat have now shifted from Hyderabad to Velagapudi near Vijayawada and the rest will be shifted to the new Secretariat in phases. Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu is expected to start working from the new office from July 21. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a39f3e2c-bed5-46ca-9369-bceba641b581-1||||
Amaravati, the new capital of Andhra Pradesh, officially started functioning Wednesday.
The fifth block of the temporary state secretariat, constructed at Velagapudi near Vijayawada, was inaugurated Wednesday and four departments of the state government were shifted there from Hyderabad.
The four departments that were shifted comprise Panchayati Raj and Rural Development, Health and Medical, Housing, and Labour and Employment departments. Panchayati Raj Minister Chintakayala Ayyanna Patrudu and Agriculture Minister inaugurated the offices under their respective ministries. Construction workers were seen giving final touches to the single-storey building.
Watch Video: What’s making news
Contrary to expectations, at least 200 employees from the four departments turned up for the inauguration ceremony and got the first glimpse of their new offices and workstations.
They left Hyderabad on Wednesday morning in five new luxury buses of the state government. On reaching the secretariat at Velagapudi, they were welcomed by members of Andhra Pradesh Employees’ Association with bouquets and garlands.
“Andhra Pradesh’s dream of ruling from its own capital on its own soil is finally coming true,’’ Panchayati Raj Minister Chintakayala Ayyanna Patrudu said. He said that work at the new capital got delayed due to rains and offices were expected to shift only late in July. “But as the ground floor of block 5 is ready for occupation, employees of the four departments have been asked to shift now,’’ he said.
Employees of the departments which shifted Wednesday will gradually move to the Velagapudi officies over the next few days.
