Days of Congress, CPI(M) are numbered: BJP ||||
 BJP leader Ananth Kumar on Saturday accused Congress and CPI(M) of engaging in "politics of convenience and opportunism" in West Bengal and Kerala, and said their days are numbered. While there is a direct alliance in Bengal, in Kerala there is an indirect, underground and hidden alliance, he said. "In this election, they have shown their real colours", Kumar added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/18428777-0013-0004-1613-000012345678||||
The BJP on Saturday hit out at the Congress and CPI(M) for engaging in “politics of convenience and opportunism” in West Bengal and Kerala and said their days are numbered.
“Both Congress and CPI(M) are attempting two models of alliance in the two states. In this election, they have shown their real colours,” Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Ananth Kumar, told a meet-the-press programme, organised by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists here.
While there was a Bengal model with direct alliance between Congress and CPI(M), in Kerala there was an “indirect, underground and hidden” alliance between the two parties, he said.
“The common man has understood this hypocrisy– politics of opportunism and convenience,” he said and urged the people of the state to defeat the “unholy alliance” of the Congress-led front which was “corrupt” and CPI(M)-headed LDF which “indulged in violence.”
The BJP-led NDA’s endeavour was to see that the state gets a new dispensation which would ensure good governance, development and people’s welfare, he said.
Claiming that the two fronts were “nervous” and instead of attacking each other, they were targetting the BJP-led NDA alliance, he said “this shows that BJP has emerged as a force to reckon with… the countdown has started for both the fronts. Their days are numbered,” he said.
He said NDA was expecting to form the next government in Kerala. “Our aim is to first get the majority,” he said when asked who would be their chief ministerial candidate.
Asked what was the basis of the optimism, he said “it is not optimism but self-confidence. Confidence in the wisdom of the people of Kerala. They have experienced enough.”
Nobody had believed that BJP would get 282 seats in the last Lok Sabha polls and would form government, he said.”There is a churning going on and enough is enough is what people feel.”
On CPI(M)’s charge that there was some secret understanding between BJP and UDF in some constituencies, he said “if someone is doubtful about themselves, they make allegations against others.”
Asked if there was a trust deficit between BJP’s national leadership and state unit on matters relating to the nomination of actor Suresh Gopi to Rajya Sabha and selection of cricketer Sreesanth as party candidate from Thiruvananthapuram central, he said “whatever decision we have taken regarding Kerala, have emanated from state leadership after due consultations.”
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
