FTII ignored all security lapse warnings: Police ||||
 The FTII administration ignored several requests to tighten its security even after being warned of a possibility of terror strike, said the Police. Earlier on Saturday, the institute received a live detonator along with a "bomb-like" substance and a threat letter. FTII reportedly does not have a security policy to deal with the campus' visitors and parcels. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ee3a6333-c975-4c3d-8ee4-40ad78b630d9-1||||
SATURDAY’S INCIDENT— in which a parcel containing a live detonator and “suspected explosive” landed at the office of Director, Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) —highlights, what police say, a lacunae in the security set up of the institute. Despite numerous reminders, the police say, the FTII administration ignored all the alerts.
The institute of national importance, which has completed half a century of its existence, still doesn’t have a security policy in place, which would establish a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to deal with visitors and parcels that come to the campus. The institute doesn’t even have a regular security officer since March 2000 and the job is being done by a contractual employee who keeps changing, reveal the documents accessed under the RTI.
The Deccan Police station also conducted several security audits in the past and have pointed to several security lapses, which have not been addressed till date.
After The Indian Express filed a query with the institute administration in July 2014, the administration had conceded that it did not have an SOP in place to deal with matters related to safety and security of the institute. The then Registrar, UC Bodake, had also promised that “very soon” a proposal to set up the SOP will be prepared and submitted to the higher authorities for approval.
Accordingly, a draft security policy was put up for consideration in the Governing Council meeting held on January 7, 2016.
“The matter was discussed in detail. It was resolved that the institute should go ahead with the policy except for students. With regard to the provisions relating to students, these may be framed in such a manner that they match with the practice being followed in other institutions of higher education,” read the minutes of the meetings.
The policy, however, is yet to be adopted as it’s stuck in process and Security Department is yet to get an SOP.
What’s appalling, say the police is the fact that even after the local police sent several requests to the FTII administration to beef up the security in the light of threats including “a possibility of terror strike” posed to the institute, nothing had been done.
One such letter written by then Senior Inspector S M Joshi of Deccan Police Station to FTII Director points out that there are no metal detectors at the main entrance gate and none of the security personnel employed by the institute carry any weapon which, it said, was a must in case of an attack. It also pointed out that the institute doesn’t follow the practice of inspecting trucks, jeeps and trolleys entering the institute.
“It’s advised that keeping in mind the importance of the institute, it should get jawans of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) who are armed with automated weapons for its security. Efforts should be made at the administerial level to get the CISF personnel,” stated the letter.
In March 2013, the Special Branch of Pune Police carried out security audit of the institute and pointed out many loopholes in the security set up, which it said were needed to be fixed immediately. These included fixing breaches to the security compound, lighting arrangement, alternative power supply, appointment of a regular Security Officer, appointment of personnel to monitor CCTV control room through day and night, setting up a watch tower equipped with a guard.
It points out that despite sending several reminders in the past, the institute failed to rectify the situation. Approached for a comment, Bhupendra Kainthola, director, FTII said that on Monday itself he will call a meeting to review the security set up and make sure that an SOP is in place at the earliest. He said that on a priority basis, he will also seek a meeting with the local police to work with them to fix any gaps in the security procedures.
“Our security department is working on the Security Policy and I am told that it’s almost finalised. After what happened yesterday, we will take up the matter on a priority basis and will do whatever is necessary to secure the campus. We can’t compromise on safety and security of our students and staffers,” said Kainthola.
Meanwhile, the Pune Police are still to trace the origin of the parcel that contained the live detonator, a ‘yellowish substance’, which looked like an explosive and a threat letter. Police said, as it was the weekend, they could not get the help of India Post to find out from where the parcel originated. The seals on the packet are illegible, said police.
“Once the Postal Department opens on Monday, we will take its help to reach the persons involved in the act. We have also sent the yellowish material for forensic testing and are waiting for its report to find out if the substance is indeed an explosive. We are studying similar cases that had happened in 2015 when a Sambhaji Brigade supporters received explosive through courier,” said Sudhir Hiremath, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone-4), Pune Police.
