'Reports of China blocking Indias NSG bid false' ||||
 MoS for External Affairs General VK Singh on Saturday said that the reports about China blocking Indias bid for entry in the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) are not true. Singh added that deliberations held behind closed doors could not be made public. This comes a day after China claimed that the meeting didn't discuss the accession of any specific country. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/336f54e8-9333-403f-8825-cca74be7d24a-1||||
After China’s claim that the plenary meeting of Nuclear Suppliers Group in Seoul did not discuss accession of any specific country, Minister of State for External Affairs General V K Singh on Saturday expressed surprise over media reports that Beijing blocked India’s bid for entry in the elite grouping.
“The speculation doing the rounds in media regarding China’s protest over NSG membership to India is not true,” he said on the sidelines of a function.
Singh’s remarks came a day after China accused the US of ignoring facts over India not getting entry into the NSG and claimed that the plenary meeting of the elite grouping in Seoul did not discuss the accession of any specific country.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
China’s assertion came in response to the remarks by US Under Secretary for Political Affairs Tom Shannon that India failed to get entry into Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) due to China-led opposition.
Singh said the NSG meeting was held behind closed doors.
“Whether China had opposed India’s bid or not could be told only by those present in the closed-door meeting,” he said.
Singh said deliberations held behind closed doors could not be made public and added that India has been trying for NSG membership since 2008.
On a query about relations with neighbouring countries, he said India was making continuous efforts in this direction.
He said due to better ties, India could talk to Iran, Israel, Saudi Arabia and China any time.
Regarding Pakistan, he said relations improve through talks, therefore, instead of negative approach, India maintains a positive gesture.
Singh said in Pakistan, army, terrorist organisations and the government were running their own system.
“It is not clear, who is running the government in Pakistan. We can talk to the elected government, therefore our positive approach is not giving expected results,” he said.
On whether India’s stand towards Pakistan was soft, he said New Delhi was doing whatever was necessary and expected.
