Bajirao Mastani dominates Sony Guild Awards '15 ||||
 Sanjay Leela Bhansali's film 'Bajirao Mastani' dominated the Sony Guild Awards 2015 on Tuesday, winning 9 awards. While Bhansali was named the Best Director, Ranveer Singh won the Best Actor (Male) award. Remo D'Souza was named the Best Choreographer for the song 'Pinga'. Deepika Padukone won the Best Actress (Female) title for 'Piku'. 'Bajrangi Bhaijaan' was named the Best Film. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/78432729-0013-0012-3231-000012345678||||
 
Bajirao Mastani won the highest number of awards at the The Renault Sony Guild Awards 2015 held in Mumbai on Tuesday (December 22). While Ranveer Singh walked away with the Best Actor trophy for his role of the Peshwa ruler, director Sanjay Leela Bhansali won the Best Director award and Mastani Deepika Padukone bagged the Best Actress trophy but for her role in Shoojit Sircar’s Piku. (Read Bajirao Mastani Movie Review)
Bajirao Mastani won a total of 9 awards including Best Director, Best Cinematography, Best Art Direction, Best Sound Design, Best Costume Design, Best Dialogue, Best Choreography, Best Actor in a Supporting Role and Best Actor in Leading Role.
Salman Khan’s superhit Bajrangi Bhaijaan won four awards including Best Film along with Best Screenplay, Best Story and Best Actor in a Supporting Role.  (See Pics of Aishwarya, Salman Khan at Stardust Awards) 
Comedian and actor Kapil Sharma was the host of the night and he also won the Best Debut (Male) for his performance in ‘Kis Kisko Pyar Karoon.’
Bollywood actress Sonakshi Sinha opened the evening with an aerial entry and performed to a medley of songs including Desi Kalakkar, DJ Wale Babu, Abhi Toh Party Shuru Hui Hai and Banno Tera Swagger. (Priyanka Chopra is a fierce cop in Jai Gangaajal)
Dilwale actress Kriti Sanon also gave a stunning performance and Ayushmann Khuranna lit the stage on fire with some incredible moves. Other highlights of the night included the gorgeous Priyanka Chopra who danced to a medley of the best songs from her most successful films including hits like ‘Right Here Right Now, Jalwa, Anjaana Anjaani, Darling, Desi Girl, Dil Dhadakne Do’ and the most recent hit Pinga.
Bollywood’s action hero Akshay Kumar was also given a special award for completing 25 years in the industry. Bollywood Khiladi also danced on some of his all time hits including ‘Tu Cheez Badi Hai Mast, Aflatoon, Chura Ke Dil Mera, Mehbooba’ and ‘Tip Tip Barsa Paani.’
Veteran actor Jeetendra received the Lifetime Achievement Award that was presented to him by his son Tusshar Kapoor and veteran actress Poonam Sinha. (Read review of Bajirao Mastani)
Priyanka Chopra won the award for Guild Global Honor for her US debut in Quantico and the Guilds President Honor went to Jammu Sugandh. The Best Child Artist award went to Harshali Malhotra for her role of a deaf and mute girl in Bajrangi Bhaijaan.
Special honors were also bestowed on the biggest films of 2015 – Bahubaali, Talvar, and Piku and K.A. Abbas honour for social consciousness for NH10.
Talking about the awards, NP Singh, CEO, Sony Pictures Networks India Pvt. Ltd. said, “Renault Sony Guild Awards recognized and felicitated outstanding people for their excellent contribution to the film fraternity in 2015. What made the night special are the power packed performances. Congratulations to all the winners and we hope our viewers enjoy watching it on the new years.”
Here’s the list of winners:
Best Actor in a Leading Role: Ranveer Singh, Bajirao Mastani
Best Actress in a Leading Role: Deepika Padukone, Piku
Best Director: Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Bajirao Mastani
Best Film: Bajrangi Bhaijaan
Best Screenplay: Kabir Khan, Bajrangi Bhaijaan
Best Story: V. Vijayendra Prasad, Bajrangi Bhaijaan
Best Dialogue: Prakash R. Kapadia, Bajirao Mastani
Best Choreography: Remo D’souza, Pinga, Bajirao Mastani
Best Lyrics: Varun Grover, Moh Moh Ke Dhaage (Dum Laga Ke Haisha)
Best Music: Amaal Mallik, Ankit Tiwari, Meet Bros Anjjan, Roy
Best Male Singer: Arijit Singh, Hamari Adhuri Kahani (Hamari Adhuri Kahani)
Best Female Singer: Monali Thakur, Moh Moh Ke Dhaage (Dum Laga Ke Haisha)
Best Actor in a Comic Role: Deepak Dobriyal, Tanu Weds Manu Returns
Best Actor in a Negative Role: Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Badlapur- Don’t Miss the Beginning
Best Actor in a Supporting Role- Male: Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Bajrangi Bhaijaan
Best Actor in a Supporting Role- Female: Tabu, Drishyam and Tanvi Azmi,
Bajirao Mastani
Promising Debut Male: Kapil Sharma, Kis Kisko Pyaar Karoon
Promising Debut Female: Bhumi Pednekar, Dum Laga Ke Haisha
Most Promising Debut Director: Neeraj Ghaywan, Masaan
