Hema Malini launches debut music album ||||
 Hema Malini on Monday launched her first music album, called 'Dream Girl'. The album was released at a launch event in Mumbai, with Sholay crew members Dharmendra, Amitabh Bachchan, Jaya Bachchan and Ramesh Sippy present at the event. The album, composed by Babul Supriyo, features a duet song and two Bengali songs, which Hema had originally recorded for Kishore Kumar. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/26802207-0012-0002-1672-000012345678||||
It was a rare occasion when all four leading lights of Sholay converged under a single roof to launch Hema Malini’s new music album titled Dream Girl. Inspired by the legendary Kishore Kumar to sing, it has been Hema’s dream to cut a music album as a singer something that bore fruit yesterday evening. But one man who effortlessly stole the show yesterday was Hema Malini’s husband, the legendary Dharmendra.
Looking uber handsome in a formal suit, Dharmendra had the audience in splits with his wisecracks. The He-Man of Bollywood showered his brotherly love on Amitabh Bachchan who he fondly referred to as his younger brother. At one point addressing him as Jai, Dharmendra asked, ‘ Jai, Veeru ko bansi bajaani nahi aati thi, phir Basanti (hema) gaane kaise lagi.’
Amitabh, on his part, was modesty personified. The superstar congratulated Heya Malini on her new endeavour and said, “Jaya was telling me we don’t do anything at all. One should look at Hema. She acts, dances, is an MP from Mathura and now has come put with a music album.”
Watch Hema Malini Launches Music Album Dream Girl With Her Sholay Co-Actors:
Jaya Bachchan relived a fan moment while sharing stage with Dharmendra who the veteran actress admitted was the only hero whose picture she had kept as a child. Thanking Hema for inviting the Bachchans, Jaya said that Dharmendra was the best life partner for her.
As a singer, Hema said she didn’t do much of riyaaz and it was Babul Supriyo who guided her on the nuances. The danseuse expressed hope to come out with more such work in future.
