AAP MLA Naresh Yadav remanded in a 2-day custody ||||
 AAP MLA Naresh Yadav, arrested on Sunday in connection with the Malerkotla sacrilege incident, was on Monday sent to a two-day police custody by a local court. He was arrested after one of the accused arrested in the case claimed he had acted on the MLA's behest. Yadav had described the police action against him as a "conspiracy". ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/83f1a069-a49f-4d06-95d6-6e0ab280cc05-1||||
Malerkotla, Jul 25 (PTI) Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Naresh Yadav was today remanded in police custody for two days by a local court in connection with an incident of alleged sacrilege here last month, a day after the Delhi legislator was arrested in the case by Punjab police.
Malerkotla Additional Civil Judge Preeti Sukheja sent Yadav to two days' police custody after he was produced before her by police.
Punjab Police had last night arrested Yadav who was booked in connection with the alleged sacrilege incident on June 24 in Malerkotla after one of the accused arrested in connection with the case claimed he had acted at the behest of the AAP MLA.
He has been charged with IPC sections 109 (punishment for abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment), 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth etc and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 295 (injury or defiling place of worship with an intent to insult the religion of any class).
Yadav had described the police action against him as a "conspiracy."
Police had claimed that Vijay had met the MLA before the incident and calls were also exchanged between them.
The Mehrauli MLA and his party have denied the charges and alleged it was a "political conspiracy" to malign AAP's image ahead of Assembly polls in Punjab.
Meanwhile, AAP's Punjab incharge Sanjay Singh condemned the arrest of MLA.
"Whatever is being done with the AAP MLA is under a conspiracy to malign the party and it is not correct," he said outside the court.
