Facing family pressure to get married: Salman ||||
 Actor Salman Khan has opened up about his marriage plans and said that he is facing a lot of pressure to get married especially from his mother and sisters. Addressing reports about his wedding taking place on November 18, Salman added that he will get married some day but he cannot state exactly as to when it will happen. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d502ad77-d784-47c7-a389-db18d1e3a1ae-1||||
Salman Khan, who is rumoured to be in a relationship with Iulia Vantur, isn't too keen to tie the knot any time soon. In fact, Bollywood's most eligible bachelor says that he does not know when he will get married, but reveals that his mother and sisters are putting pressure on him to tie the knot soon.
ALSO READ: Salman Khan and Iulia Vantur party all night to celebrate the success of Sultan 
ALSO READ: Post Iftar party, Salman Khan takes Iulia Vantur out on a dinner date?
Ever since the rumours of Salman dating Iulia started doing the rounds, his wedding date has always been in the news so much that the Bajrangi Bhaijaan actor once said that he will tell his fans when he is getting married through Twitter.
When asked about his marriage date, which is rumoured to be November 18, the 50-year-old actor told PTI, "Ye 18th November kuch bees-pachees Novembers se chal raha hai...18th November hota hai ki nahi pata nahi kaunse saal may hota hai, but hoga. (This talk about marriage has been going on since the last 20-25 years. I dont know when it will take place, but it will happen)."
The Sultan star was speaking at the launch of Sania Mirza's autobiography "Ace Against Odds" in Mumbai.
Sania, replying to the actors comment, said, "It's okay, I think not many women are complaining that you are not getting married. It's fine."
Replying to this Salman said, "I know a few...Aapko nahi pata mujhpe kitna pressure aata hai (you don't what kind of pressure I face). By the way, I know a few means those are my mother and sisters."
Salman also said that November 18 is the wedding anniversary of his parents. When asked if it will be his wedding date as well, he said, "Agar woh date calendar mein ho toh. Pata chala woh 18th November koi nikaal diya. (Only if that date is there in the calendar. Or else somebody will remove November 18 from it)."
On the work front, his recently released film Sultan is all set to cross the Rs 250-crore mark. Directed by Ali Abbas Zafar, Sultan also stars Anushka Sharma. 
