India to hold multi-national military exercise ||||
 India will hold one of the largest multi-national military exercises from March 2 to 8 in Pune as a part of its Look East policy. Over 18 Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) members will participate in the Field Training Exercise (FTX) named Exercise Force Eighteen. The FTX will focus on Humanitarian Mine Action and Peace Keeping Operations. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/93753389-0012-0001-7344-000012345678||||
As part of the Look East policy, India will conduct one of the largest multi-national military exercises from March 2 to 8 in Pune. The Field Training Exercise (FTX), christened Exercise Force Eighteen, will see participation of over 360 personnel from 18 ASEAN Plus countries.
Exercise Force Eighteen will focus on Humanitarian Mine Action and Peace Keeping Operations, to allow the armies of these countries to develop a common understanding in handling any complex situation. The exercise is part of a concerted attempt by India towards constructive joint efforts of ASEAN Plus militaries to enhance the peace and security of the region.
“This exercise is an outcome of our effort because the ASEAN Defense Ministers’ Meeting, ADMM Plus had planned for two separate exercises for Humanitarian Mine Action and UN Peace Keeping Operations in 2016. During
ADSOM Plus (ASEAN Defence Senior Officers’ Meeting) held in Malaysia in March 2015, we offered to bring the two exercises together and conduct the joint FTX this year,” a senior army official said.
The final planning conference for the exercise was held in Pune last week, where military delegates from participating countries reconnoitered the Exercise Area and visited various administrative infrastructures developed for the FTX.
India — along with Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand, Russia, South Korea and the US — forms part of the ASEAN Plus. 10 countries from South East Asia – Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam — are members of the ASEAN.
