Creating litigation policy for easy justice: Rajnath ||||
 Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said that work was on to formulate a comprehensive litigation policy which will ensure "cheap and easy justice". Singh added, "My ministry has sent a letter to all the chief ministers suggesting that undertrials, accused of minor crimes and who have already served half of the maximum punishment in jail, should be released." ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/91730ab8-7a5b-4b7c-baea-fbbeec23d763-1||||
Lucknow, Aug 6 (PTI) Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh today said work was on to formulate a comprehensive litigation policy which will ensure "cheap and easy justice".
"Work is on to formulate a comprehensive litigation policy which will ensure cheap and easy justice," he told the gathering at the silver jubilee celebrations of Uttar Pradesh Adhivakta Parishad here.
Singh said there were four lakh prison inmates in the country of which, undertrials accounted for around two-third.
"My ministry has sent a letter to all the chief ministers suggesting that undertrials, accused of minor crimes and who have already served half of the maximum punishment in jail, should be released," he said.
On another note, the veteran BJP leader said the Partition of the country on religious lines was "unfortunate".
"Today, a large number of minorities in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Afghanistan are coming to India. I know many of them do not have passport or visa and in many cases, they have expired. I have issued an executive order wherein they will be given shelter. We are taking steps to implement the Indian Citizenship (Amendment) Bill," he said.
Singh said earlier, law was not a preferred career option for many but the situation has changed with the number of law colleges in the country increasing to around 1,500.
"It is one of the most preferred career options today," he said.
He said only Indian cultural values imbibe the principles of law and justice, dos and don'ts and right and wrong.
"Today, we are moving away from those values. But, I feel that if the 21st century has to be made as India's, it would be possible only on the basis of our cultural values," said Singh.
He said some would take the names of Alexander or Napoleon as the greatest king ever but for Indians, they were Ram and Harishchandra.
"Their sacrifices are the standard of greatness. Such values cannot be found anywhere else," he said.
Earlier, addressing party workers in Jankipuram, Singh said Lucknow would be transformed into a developed city and the ring road work, with an estimated cost of Rs 5,000 crore, would commence from September.
