Rio: India beat Ireland 3-2 in opening game ||||
 The Indian hockey team won 3-2 against Ireland in their opening round Group B match at the Rio Olympics on Saturday. A solitary goal from Vokkaliga Ramachandra Raghunath and a brace from Rupinder Pal Singh's converted penalty corners helped India register their first win at the event. India will now face Germany in their second Group B match on Monday. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/07719cce-c601-4857-9486-61d07afef25c-1||||
India beat Ireland 3-2 in the Hockey Group B contest of the Rio 2016 Olympics on Saturday. India dominated the Irish in the first three quarters but they did fight back in the fourth to reduce India’s lead. All five goals scored in the match came through penalty corners as goalies from both sides – Sreejesh and Hart – were on top of their game and kept denying possibility of a field goal. For India, Raghunath opened the scoring with a perfect drag flick and Rupinder swelled India’s lead when he converted two more penalty corners. Sreejesh again stood out as he was cool under pressure and stood like a wall in front of the goal post. In the end, it turned out to be a job well done for India as they got their campaign off to a winning start.
India vs Ireland: As it happened
2100 hrs IST: FULL TIME! India beat Ireland 3-2 to seal a win in their opening match of Rio 2016 Olympics
2057 hrs IST: It’s heading towards an exciting finish. Ind lead 3-2, into last three minutes
2054 hrs IST: The last four minutes are underway. It’s all about holding pressure now as Ireland get another penalty corner
2053 hrs IST: GOAL! Connor Hart executes a brilliant set piece to five Ireland the second goal, reduce India’s lead. It’s still 3-2 in India’s favour. Exciting last four minutes on the cards
2051 hrs IST: Ireland continue to press forward and Sreejesh continues to deflect the danger away. He has been magnificent so far
2048 hrs IST: Sreejesh with a brilliant save to deny Ireland a goal. He has been a wall in front of the post today
2047 hrs IST: Another penalty corner for Ireland. They have had some success in this department in the second half. Have also converted one
2042 hrs IST: A little over 10 minutes left in the match. Ireland need to keep believing and keep pressing forward. Anything is possible in the space of minutes in field hockey
2040 hrs IST: Irish defender stood in the way of the shot and has taken a serious blow from the shoot, a very powerful shoot. He’s down near the post and receiving some attention
Ireland rushers giving Indians a lot of time to execute their flicks. Still, Bob & Raghu getting the tough job done. Full marks in PCs today
— Mihir Vasavda (@mihirsv) 6 August 2016
2039 hrs IST: GOAL! Rupinder converts another penalty corner to give India 3-1 lead now. Like a bullet!
2038 hrs IST: We are into the last 15 minutes. India’s approach now will be crucial. Whether they play defensive or push forward for their third goal
2032 hrs IST: GOAL! Sreejesh finally beaten as Jermyn takes the penalty corner with perfection to give Ireland their first goal of the match. It’s 2-1 in India’s favour at end of the third quarter
2024 hrs IST: Time’s running out for Ireland. They desperately need a goal to keep their chances in the contest alive
2022 hrs IST: Ireland with their third penalty corner and the quick shot just over the bar. The intention was right but again, it missed the execution bit. Sreejesh has been impressive reading Ireland’s set pieces. Rising and moving in the direction of the shot
2019 hrs IST: Ireland continue to play catch-up as India continue push forward, in search of their third goal of the Group B opener
2017 hrs IST: The third quarter is underway and India lead 2-0. Sreejesh hasn’t been tested much so far. India continue to attack and have sustained pressure on the Irish unit
2007 hrs IST: That’s the end of the first half. With goals from Raghunath, Rupinder, India lead 2-0
2005 hrs IST: Towards the end of another quarter, India earn another penalty corner. Incredible hockey by the Indian unit
2001 hrs IST: The DJ is certainly in the mood today as he now plays ‘Tenu Kaala Chashma’
2000 hrs IST: Ramandeep injects, Rupinder first it in to give #IND the second goal. 2-0 now
1959 hrs IST: Action at last in the Irish D as India earn their fifth penalty corner
Ireland with good spell of pressure bt once again fail to score. India just about manage to hang on to that 1 goal lead. 4 mins to half time
— Mihir Vasavda (@mihirsv) 6 August 2016
1957 hrs IST: Another penalty corner for Ireland, the drag, the flick but it’s hit wide. Ireland not quite able to execute it on that occasion
1955 hrs IST: And, goal not granted. It remains 1-0 in India’s favour
1954 hrs IST: Superb dragflick and #IRL equalise. It’s locked at 1-1 now. Good set piece by Ireland
1953 hrs IST: Excellent ball into the D and Ireland earn their first penalty corner of the game. Good chance for them to equalise
1952 hrs IST: Just the one goal, from India, as he finish the half of second quarter. India have been very impressive but so has been Ireland goalie Hart
1949 hrs IST: India make a break down the left side, with an incredible effort but Nikkin puts it just wide. Remains 1-0 in India’s favour
1947 hrs IST: Commentator needs a little fact check as he called Sardar the captain. It’s not Sardar but the cool head in front of the post – Sreejesh
1945 hrs IST: The two teams are out in the middle for the second quarter and India on the attack, straight away
1943 hrs IST: Penalty corner No.4 is Goal No.1 for India. Raghunath fires it in. #IND lead 1-0 and the DJ, in Rio, plays ‘Tu Chandigarh to aayi ni’
1942 hrs IST: No damage done with the second, but they earn another one – the third penalty corner for India
1941 hrs IST: India take the referral, and win the referral. Get their second penalty corner towards fag end of first quarter
1940 hrs IST: Ireland survive…Hart came out but the defender made the last touch to hit the ball out of danger area
1939 hrs IST: First penalty corner, with 41 seconds remaining in first quarter, goes to India
1934 hrs IST: India find space from the left but it’s that man Hart again. The goalie leaves his post, dives and the left pad deflects the ball away
1932 hrs IST: Uthappa with superb skills to produce a threatening move in the D. India have their task cut out in the D – Hart is no easy wall to penetrate. They have to be very accurate with their moves, and shots
1931 hrs IST: Ramandeep with sharp play, a powerful cross but no takers. India make some brisk moves with plenty of men in the D
1930 hrs IST: More than five minutes into the first quarter, couple of good moves but no goals from either sides
1928 hrs IST: Harmanpreet to Surender but no body there to take Surender’s pass. Ireland’s ball and the teams continue to trade possession
1927 hrs IST: David Hart with good reactionary play to keep the danger away. India made a serious move from the right but the goalie was alert in front of the post
1926 hrs IST: Ireland make a move from the right, sends one into the area but no damage done as Indian defence in control of the situation
1924 hrs IST: Ireland in the whites and India in the light blues on the blue astro turf
1920 hrs IST: #IND, #IRL line up for the national anthems. Moments away from start now
1910: We are less than 20 minutes away from kick-off. Exciting contest on the cards as India would like to get their campaign off to a positive start. They last won a Olympic medal way back in 1980, a gold
1900 hrs IST: A congratulatory tweet from former India player Yuvraj Walmiki for his brother Devinder
The wait is over when my baby brother @DWalmiki name will change forever to OLYMPIAN Devinder. Good luck darling #proudbrother #Rio2016
— Yuvraj Walmiki (@YWalmiki) August 6, 2016

1850 hrs IST: India team: PR Sreejesh, Harman, Kothajit, Surender, Manpreet, Sardar, Raghu, SK, Mujtaba, Sunil, Akashdeep
BUILD UP
India eye winning start in hockey
India begin their hockey campaign with the men taking on Ireland in a Group B encounter – quite possibly their easiest opponent from the table. Other opponents in the group include Argentina, Canada, Germany and Netherlands leaving eight time medallist little room for comfort. Moreover, a terrible last place finish in London would be a psychological barrier that may affect the Roelant Oltmans coached team.
Only bean bags in players’ rooms, Hockey India president Narinder Batra lashes out at India’s Chef de Mission‘

Only after a day the Indian hockey team landed in Rio, coach Roelant Oltmans wrote a letter to India’s Chef de Mission Rakesh Gupta complaining about the shortage of chairs and television sets at the Games Village and the players’ apartments not being properly furnished.
