Milind Soman's 76-yr-old mother joins him for marathon ||||
 Milind Soman's 76-year-old mother Usha Soman joined the former model in his 'The Great Indian Run' marathon between Ahmedabad and Mumbai, on the penultimate day of the run. The biochemist and former teacher ran the marathon barefoot while wearing a sari. She had earlier reportedly walked 100 kilometres in less than 48 hours for the Mumbai Oxfam Trailwalker race. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1904ed54-1d15-4024-bec7-bdb142b48b1f-1||||
Ironman Milind Soman has been redefining fitness at 50 in India, and a latest video explains the force behind his marathon successes. It’s his mother!
In a recent video shared on Facebook by The Great India Run – a two-week-long marathon between Ahmedabad and Mumbai in which Soman has been participating – his ansolutely awesome 76-year-old mother Usha decided to join him. According to the information on the video, it was shot on the penultimate day of the The Great India Run (which concludes on August 4) near the Manor, a district near Thane.
The video has gone viral for obvious reasons. Within a day of being posted, it was viewed nearly 350,000 times, with close to 5,000 shares. And the numbers are going up as we type.
But if you think a septuagenarian running a marathon is unbelievable, there’s more. The biochemist and former teacher was running in a sari and barefoot! Beat that! That’s 20 seconds of awesomeness that will give you life goals for sure. In fact, this is not the first time she’s wowed everyone either. A couple years back, Usha reportedly walked 100km in less than 48 hours for the Mumbai Oxfam Trailwalker, and that too without any assistance or medical help. How many of us can boast of that?!
Watch the video here.
Milind Soman himself has become a poster boy of marathon running and fitness in India. He organises the Pinkathon, a running event that raises awareness on breast cancer, and has been a huge supporter of women empowerment and fitness for quite a while. According to reports, he is working on developing a lightweight running sari for women, and it’s not suprising to see where he may have got the idea from.
