Shah Rukhs opinion matters to me most: Karan ||||
 Filmmaker Karan Johar has said that his friend actor Shah Rukh Khan's opinion matters to him the most. Shah Rukh had praised the music of the upcoming film 'Ae Dil Hai Mushkil', which Karan is directing and producing. "It is very kind of Shah Rukh Khan to say that... I was moved to tears when he said that," said Karan. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2464b082-aced-478d-bd01-71f1a7a5026e-1||||
Filmmaker Karan Johar says his eyes welled up when actor-friend Shah Rukh Khan praised the music of Ae Dil Hai Mushkil as the superstar’s opinion matters to him the most.
“It is very kind of Shah Rukh Khan to say that. I am excited about it (film and music). Shah Rukh’s opinion matters to me the most. I was moved to tears when he said that,” Karan told PTI when asked about SRK praising the music of his upcoming film.
There were reports that SRK saw the trailer of Karan’s film and was unhappy with it (trailer) and has asked him (Karan) to make some alterations. However, SRK had denied seeing the trailer and had rather appreciated the songs.
“I have heard three songs and they are amazing. I have heard the title track, it is one of the most nicest ballet… it is fantastic,” the “Dilwale” star had said.
Starring Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Anushka Sharma, Ranbir Kapoor and Fawad Khan the film releases this Diwali. Reportedly “Ae Dil Hai Mushkil” will be clashing with Ajay Devgn’s “Shivaay”. When asked about the clash, Karan chose not to comment and just nodded his head.
Very recently it was reported that Ranbir Kapoor and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan have shot for an intimate scene in the movie. Not just that, it was also said that the Bachchan family is very upset with it.
Karan Johar’s much-awaited movie Ae Dil Hai Muskil is one of the much talked movies because of its star cast. The movie features Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Ranbir Kapoor and Anushka Sharma. The movie is said to have some intimate scenes which is creating a lot of controversies.
As per reports, the Bachchan family was not very happy with their daughter-in-law Aishwariya doing intimate scene in the film with Ranbir. The movie demanded kissing scenes of Ranbir and Aishwarya. Reportedly, Bachchan ‘parivar’ asked Karan Johar to remove the scene from the movie.
Earlier too during the making of Dhoom 2, it was rumoured that the Bachchans were not happy with their to-be-bahu kissing Hrithik Roshan in the film.
