Preachers of hate are threatening society: Modi ||||
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said preachers of hate and violence are threatening the fabric of our society. Addressing students at a university in Kenya, "We must condemn those who give shelter to terrorists and use them as political instruments." Modi's statement comes amid the ongoing controversy over Indian Islamic cleric Zakir Naik's alleged hate speech videos. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0249e6ce-66c9-4849-b5d3-7c7a96f17d1c-1||||
Addressing students at the University of Nairobi in Kenya, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Monday said “preachers of hate and violence are threatening the fabric of our society”.
In an apparent reference to Islamic preacher Zakir Naik, PM Modi urged youth to play an important role in building a counter narrative to “extremist ideologies”.
In another purported reference to Pakistan, the prime minister added that those who provide shelter to terrorists and use them as political instruments must be condemned.
“We must condemn those who give shelter to terrorists and use them as political instruments,” said PM Modi.
Watch Video: Dhaka Attack: Zakir Naik Says He Did Not Influence Anyone
 
Preacher Naik today expressed shock over the alleged “media trial” against him after the recent terrorist attack in Dhaka where 22 were killed.
“I do not support terrorism or violence in any form whatsoever. I have never supported any terrorist organisations,” Naik said.
He strongly condemned those taking his comments “out of context” and using it for instigating violence. Naik also said he would readily cooperate with any Indian investigation agency.
“Most of clips shown on TV of myself are either out of context, half statements or doctored. So are my statements,” he said.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
 
Earlier today, Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif condemned the alleged “oppressive action” against Kashmiris protesting over the killing of Indian Mujhahideen commander Burhan Wani.
“The Prime Minister of Pakistan has expressed his deep shock at the killing of Kashmiri leader Burhan Wani and many other civilians by the Indian military and paramilitary forces,” Sharif’s office said in the statement.
