Ram Madhav takes a dig at Aamir Khan ||||
 BJP National General Secretary Ram Madhav on Friday took a jibe at actor Aamir Khan's remark on intolerance and advised him to teach his wife about the nation's prestige. Further commenting on the recent series of award wapsi as a protest against intolerance, Madhav added, "There is no need of award wapsi. You do not safeguard your country like that." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/52340753-0010-0001-6518-000012345678||||
BJP leader Ram Madhav Thursday denounced actor Aamir Khan’s remarks on “intolerance”, saying he should not only preach to an auto-rickshaw driver about the country’s prestige but also to his wife. Madhav also said the government would ensure that in future no need arises for “award-wapsi”, and asserted that there will be no compromise on the security of the country’s borders and self respect.
In an apparent dig at Aamir, who recently courted controversy over his remarks on perceived intolerance in the country, Madhav said, “It will not work that you preach to an autowallah how the country’s prestige has to be saved, but not tell the same to your own wife.”
Madhav, who was addressing students at Delhi University’s SGBT Khalsa college, said: “No one needs to return the awards, everyone will be taken care of, but the country should be respected. The individuals should also take care of the nation’s prestige.”
He said: “We are dedicated to the security of the country. We want good relations with our neighbours. But with regard to the security of the country’s borders and its self-respect, no compromise will be accepted… we will take care that no need arises to return awards years later.”
Maintaining that in articulation of dreams for the country, sometimes one can be “politically incorrect” too, the BJP leader said: “We feel pained that we are living in such an atmosphere that we cannot see dreams, you cannot talk four good things about the country’s future as it has to be politically correct…it has to be secular…”
Madhav said Swami Vivekananda had asserted in his address in Chicago that Indians not only tolerate but also “accept” and “validate”.
Aamir Khan On Intolerance & Delinking Terrorism From Religion #RNGAwards

“Every American citizen is respected because of his country’s image in the world. Similarly, we want to make India an honourable nation. Not that the honour of our citizens is not our concern… our main aim is to bring honour to India across the world,” he said.
“There is no need of award wapsi. You do not safeguard your country like that. Every citizen should be respected here and if anything wrong happens, that will be taken care of,” said Madhav.
The BJP leader said ever since Narendra Modi took over as the Prime Minister, the image of the country has improved globally. He further said both his party and the government advocate “development for all”, which is why the Prime Minister always endorses “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas”.
