Central govt jobs' exam scores to be put online ||||
 The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has approved a Niti Aayog proposal of making available online the scores and rankings of candidates taking competitive examinations for central government jobs. The National Informatics Centre will develop an integrated website for the same that will have links to various recruiting agencies. The candidates can also opt out of the disclosure scheme. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2c235d24-c11f-4ce5-8985-28df74e8616c-1||||
In order to boost hiring, scores of all candidates taking various competitive examinations will be made available online for both public and private sector.
The central government has approved the proposal of Niti Aayog for making available publically scores and ranking of candidates in recruitment examinations through a portal for increasing access of the unemployed to job opportunities, an order issued today by Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) said.
The move comes nearly three months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement in this regard.
“As approved by the government, the candidates will have the option to opt out of the disclosure scheme. The option of opting out will have to be taken at the time of filing up the application.
“This, thus further indicates that the actual implementation can be done only on those examinations for which the application forms will be invited in future. Seeking option from candidates during the process of conduct of examination may neither be practical nor feasible,” it said.
There are many recruiting agencies like Union Public Service Commission and Staff Selection Commission to select employees for various government jobs including for prestigious Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) among others.
The results of government entrance examinations for engineering and medical colleges are already being used by private colleges for admissions.
As per the proposal, the National Informatics Centre (NIC) will develop a website “Integrated Information System for Public Recruitment Agencies” which will have links to various recruiting agency’s own web pages.
Each recruiting agency will develop its own web page. The home page will display the details of the recruitment examinations undertaken by them in the past one year and the date of announcement of the final results, the DoPT said in the proposal.
The user can then click on the appropriate examination and then a search page will be displayed. The search page will include display of details of candidate along with their rankings and their scores in descending order of rankings.
However, search can also specify name of candidates or any specific range of rankings which will then by displayed, it said.
The details like category of candidates like General, Scheduled Caste or Minority, educational qualifications, marks obtained in the qualifying examination, rankings by which the merit is decided and complete address among others can be accessed through the proposed website.
Read: 10 tips and tricks to prepare for entrance exams 
The Prime Minister had in March said that scores of candidates taking competitive examinations will be shared with prospective employers to help them choose quality talents.
“The government and public sector undertakings conduct a number of recruitment examinations. So far, the scores in these examinations have been retained by the government.
“Hereafter, we will make available the results and the candidate information openly to all employers, wherever consent is given by the candidate. This will create a positive externality,” Modi had said.
For more news on education, click here
