Veterans suspend OROP protest; to take to court ||||
 Ex-servicemen protesting for the complete implementation of the One Rank One Pension scheme have suspended their indefinite relay fast. They plan to approach the Supreme Court for a solution after the 320-day agitation. Major General (retd) Satbir Singh, the leader of protesting veterans, said lawyer Ram Jethmalani will file a case in the Supreme Court in the next 3-4 days. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/136e3fd5-7532-4783-b10b-20c14aa46b26-1||||
Protesting ex-servicemen tonight suspended their 320-day-old agitation for complete implementation of One Rank One Pension (OROP) as senior lawyer Ram Jethmalani assured them of leading their legal battle in the apex court.
“The indefinite relay fast has been suspended now as we will be taking the legal recourse. Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar had said that proverbial gun was been held to the head of the government by virtue of our presence at Jantar Mantar.
“Now that we have suspended the agitation, we believe that Parrikar will now keep his promises made to us,” said Col (retd) Anil Kaul, spokesperson of the ex-servicemen movement.
Addressing armed forces veterans staging protest at Jantar Mantar in the national capital, Jethmalani said he would fight their case in the Supreme Court.
“I am 93-year-old and I can die any day but I assure you that it will not happen before I get you justice from the Supreme Court,” Jethmalani said.
Major General (retd) Satbir Singh, leader of the protesting veterans, claimed a case will be filed by Jethmalani on OROP demand in the Supreme Court in next 3-4 days and he will not charge any fee.
He said four more cases have been filed in the armed forces tribunal.
“These cases pertain to rulings for jawans, war widows, arrears since 2006, payments for honorary ranks, rounding off of disability pension, and payments of reservists,” he said.
The veterans’ protest at Jantar Mantar entered its 320th day today.
Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar had in September last year announced implementation of the long delayed OROP for ex-servicemen but the veterans have been continuing with their protest demanding “complete” implementation of the scheme.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
