Kerala HC judge makes constables stand for hours ||||
 A Kerala HC judge on Wednesday summoned two police constables and made them stand in the courtroom for hours after they allegedly misbehaved with him during a temple visit on Sunday. Reportedly, the constables didn't recognise the judge who was in a shirt and dhoti. The constables were also asked to write down duties and responsibilities from Kerala Police Act. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/32788223-0006-0012-2352-000012345678||||
A judge of Kerala High Court made two police constables stand for hours in a court room for allegedly misbehaving with him during his visit to a temple. The constables, K R Raju Nath and Satheesh Babu, were also asked to write down “duties and responsibilities of the police’’ from the Kerala Police Act as they stood in the court room, said police sources.
On Sunday, high court judge P D Rajan went to a temple in the city, dressed in a shirt and dhoti. He went to the police aid post at the temple and asked the policemen on duty to call the doctor at the temporary clinic.
According to police, Nath and Babu could not identify Rajan as a judge. Neither did he introduce himself, nor did he tell them that his wife was the doctor at the clinic, said police.
The policemen asked his name so that they could inform the doctor about the visitor, but the judge did not reveal his name, said sources.
At this point, one of the policemen reportedly called the judge “chetta” (elder brother). He said let “chetta’’ go and call the doctor.
The judge went to the clinic and returned with his wife. Before leaving, he noted down the names of the two constables.
On Monday, Nath and Babu were summoned to the court by Justice Rajan. Accordingly, the duo reached the court room by 10.15 am. They were reportedly made to stand at the court till 1 pm. In between, the judge asked them to write down the part mentioning “duties and responsibilities’’ from Kerala Police Act, said police sources.
At 1 pm, they were allowed to go for lunch, but were asked to return by 1.45 pm. They returned and were made to stand till 3.15 pm. The judge allowed the policemen to go, but said they would have to appear again if the court deemed so, said sources.
On Tuesday, the court summoned city police commissioner M P Dinesh and asked him to probe the incident.
One of the policemen said they did not misbehave with the judge, but had addressed him as “chetta’’. “He had told us then not to call him ‘chetta’,’’ he said.
