Asus launches new gaming PC in India from 1.85L ||||
 Asus has announced a new gaming device in India, ROG G20CB, which will be available in limited quantities starting from 1,85,990. It is the first PC in India to feature NVIDIA's Pascal GeForce GTX1080 GPU, claimed to be the most advanced graphics card ever. The PC comes in matte-black finish and is powered by a sixth-generation Intel Core i7 processor. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/89c9bc68-9871-4bf0-89a1-7cfdf7a2f1fe-1||||
Asus has announced another new gaming device under its ROG series in India. The newest desktop PC is the first PC in India to feature NVIDIA’s Pascal GeForce GTX1080 GPU. The laptop will be available in limited quantities at a starting price of Rs 1,85,990.
Asus ROG G20CB is a gaming desktop that is extremely compact and console-sized with clean aesthetics. The ROG G20CB is powered by a sixth generation Intel Core i7 processor based on Skylake architecture. Asus says its ROG G20CB is primarily meant for mainstream gaming. The desktop gaming PC’s main feature is the use of NVIDIA Pascal GPU which is the most advanced graphics card ever created for a gaming. The NVIDIA Pascal GPU promises unprecedented performance, power efficiency and gaming experience driven by the Pascal architecture.
“Gaming is always about providing immersive experience which is ever changing with the latest technology. The latest NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1080 graphics card is the most advanced gaming graphics card the world has seen to date and it will provide an undisruptive HD-gaming performance and entertainment for gamers,” said Peter Chang, Regional Head – South Asia & Country Manager – System Business Group – ASUS India.
NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1080 offers up to three times the performance of the previous graphics card and also offers better heat dissipation using vapour chamber cooling technology and premium materials. The architecture comprises of two internal fans which further enhance heat dissipation and its near silent operation measures just 22dB in idle state. Asus also made G20CB eco-friendly with its eco energy mode running at mere 20W. The Asus ROG G20CB comes in matte-black finish with no visible exhaust fans on the exterior.
