Google launches its first public WiFi in India ||||
 Google, in partnership with Indian Railways, launched its first free high-speed public WiFi service in the country at the Mumbai Central Railway Station on Friday. Earlier, during Prime Minister Narendra Modis visit to the US, Google promised to provide free WiFi across 400 railway stations in India. The service will be made available next in Allahabad, Patna, Jaipur, and Ranchi. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/58253057-0010-0001-7627-000012345678||||
RailTel has announced the launch of free high-speed public Wi-Fi service in partnership with Google at Mumbai Central Railway Station. Google had announced its plans to bring high-speed Wi-Fi to 400 Indian railway stations during PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Google HQ in Mountain View, California.
Google plans to extend the service quickly to cover 100 of the busiest stations by the end of this year. The project will eventually cover 400 railway stations across India.
With Railwire Wi-Fi service, the travelers will be able to easily stream high definition video while they are waiting. Google says users of its public Wi-Fi service can save videos offline on its YouTube app for viewing during the journey.
Must Read: What is Google’s Wi-Fi at 100 railway station project and how will it work
“Our intent was to fulfill Indian Railway’s vision of providing Railway passengers access to high speed Internet through our Optical fiber communication network. Affordable smartphones have made it possible for the common men to experience the power of Internet. With our partnership with Google, we are very confident of rolling out a robust, scalable service at Railway stations in the near future,” said R K Bahuguna, Chairman and Managing Director, Railtel.
“We’re delighted to launch India’s first high speed public Wi-Fi service in partnership with Indian Railways. Bringing affordable Internet access to millions of people is an important part of making the Internet both easily accessible and useful for more than 300 million Indians who are already online, and the nearly one billion more who are not,” said Rajan Anandan, VP and Managing Director, Google India.
The free public Wi-Fi service will be available in Allahabad, Patna, Jaipur and Ranchi shortly.
