Film is biggest superstar: Nana on Rajinikanth ||||
 Veteran actor Nana Patekar has said that a film is the biggest superstar following a question on whether he felt that Rajinikanth is India's biggest superstar. He said that a film that is "not good enough... will not run" based on the star. "If your story is good... even if actors are new, the film will do well," added Nana. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c05ae493-83ed-40d2-a75a-f038007b83c1-1||||
Rajinikanth is often seen by many as the biggest superstar of Indian cinema but not Nana Patekar. Not that Nana considers anyone else to be bigger than the Kabali actor. For Nana, it's the film that always is on a higher pedestal than a superstar actor.
When Nana was quizzed about Rajinikanth and if he feels the Tamil actor is the country's biggest superstar, the Natsamrat actor implied otherwise in his reply. "Film is the biggest superstar. If you story is good and executed well then, even if actors are new, the film will do well. As far as stars are concerned, the film will run for two or three days but later on if the film is not good enough, it will not run irrespective of who the star of the film is," said Nana.
Rajinikanth's Kabali opened this Friday to unprecedented fan frenzy. At many cinemas, 5 am shows were organised, the first three days were booked solid and the film has already earned Rs 200 crore at the box office. However, Kabali was met with mixed reviews with many attacking it for its slow pace and a weak script.
The veteran actor also credited writers for writing brilliant scripts that make films blockbuster hits which in turn create superstars. "Writers are given more importance today. Salim-Javed gave writers a good status in our industry. A film is only as good as its story. If the story is not good, the film will not be good as well. The story should good look on paper. If the story is not good, no big star can save it. It will run only for one or two days. That's it. A star can bring the audience to theatres only for two days but not more."
Nana also dismissed talks of Natsamrat's sequel. "My character dies in the end. So a sequel is not possible."
Also read: Rajinikanth's Kabali spectacular success, movie earns Rs 400 crore
On Salman Khan's acquittal, Nana remarked, "If he has been acquitted, it's a good thing for him." Nana also expressed concern over the growing menace of piracy and said that the same results in huge losses to filmmakers who put their hard earned money into films.
