PoK will remain with Pakistan: Farooq Abdullah ||||
 National Conference party leader, Farooq Abdullah said on Friday that India needs to give up on claiming Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), as it  "will remain with Pakistan". "PoK belongs to Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir belongs to India," Abdullah said. He further added that India and Pakistan should hold talks and find a way to resolve their tense border relations. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/45418022-0017-0011-9957-000012345678||||
Fifteen years after he first suggested converting the Line of Control (LoC) into an International Border for lasting peace between India and Pakistan, former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir and opposition National Conference (NC) patron Dr Farooq Abdullah Friday raked up another controversy saying that then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee during his Lahore visit had offered the division of Kashmir between the two neighbouring countries.
“I had told them to keep that part of Kashmir and we will keep this part for resolution of the matter. We will correct the line (LoC) and this will ease travel and trade between people on both sides,” Farooq quoted Vajpayee as having told Pakistan during his Lahore visit.
 
PoK is in Pakistan and will remain, J&K is in India and will remain. We need to understand this-Farooq Abdullah pic.twitter.com/vyJcx3kSDZ
— ANI (@ANI_news) November 27, 2015
“However, they did not agree,” he said, adding that, “I know this as Vajpayee had told me when, after his Lahore visit, I asked about the talks.”
The former CM made these revelations when, after the conclusion of a function in connection with the death anniversary of veteran Congress leader Girdhari Lal Dogra here, his attention was drawn towards a Parliament resolution reiterating PoK as an integral part of India.
“For how many years have we been saying that this is a part of India,” he said and asked, “what have we done to ensure it? Whether we have taken that part of India?”
Seeking resumption of talks between India and Pakistan for the resolution of the Kashmir issue, the former chief minister said, “Today they are prepared to agree to it, but you at least talk to them.”
Pointing out that there can be no resolution of the issue through violence, he said the four wars between the two countries have brought them nothing but killing of people on both sides. “If we really want to resolve the issue, this is the only way out,” he added.
When asked about the voices being raised in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) for joining India, he said that this will never happen. “That is part of Pakistan and it will continue to remain so. This (Jammu and Kashmir) is part of India and it will continue to remain so,” he said.
“You please understand, the only solution is that both India and Pakistan talk and find some way out through negotiations,” he added. Significantly, this has been Farooq’s old stand on PoK and even during his tenure as Chief Minister in 2000, he had suggested conversion of the LoC into an international border between the two countries as an amicable resolution to the Kashmir issue.
Farooq also defended actor Aamir Khan for his comments and said, “When did he say that he will leave the country? I was there. This is wrong propaganda being made against him.”
Pointing out that politics is one thing and humanity is another, he said, “I am a Muslim, but is there anything lacking in my being an Indian?” “We all are Indians and we have to live in India and work for its progress,” he said, asking people to remember that India does not belong to one, but to all. .”
