Indian choppers helped Afghan fight terror: US ||||
 The three Mi-35 multi-role helicopters gifted by India to Afghanistan have made a significant difference in the fight against the militants in the country, the commander of US forces in Afghanistan has said. Mi-35 is a versatile helicopter gunship with troop carrying capabilities. Three Mi-35s had been handed over to Afghanistan in December, with the fourth to be delivered soon. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/90499772-0009-0002-9622-000012345678||||
The three Mi-35 Indian multi-role helicopters donated to Afghanistan have made a big difference in the offensive against militants in the war-torn country, the outgoing commander of US forces in Afghanistan has said.
“They do have three Mi-35s (sic) – really Mi-24s and Mi-35s from India. They’ll have a fourth one coming in pretty soon that will add to their inventory as well and that’ll make a great difference,” Gen John Campbell told members of the House Armed Services Committee during a Congressional hearing on Afghanistan on Tuesday.
The Mi-35, a comprehensive upgrade of the Mi-24, is a versatile helicopter gunship with troop carrying capabilities.
Campbell, who has commanded US and international forces in Afghanistan for the past 18 months, is expected to retire.
Lieutenant General John Nicholson has been chosen by President Barack Obama to replace Campbell.
In January, three multi-role Mi-35 attack helicopters donated by India were inducted into the Afghan Air Force, giving the country’s security forces a much-needed lethal teeth against militant groups like the Taliban.
The Indian gift to Afghanistan has been hailed by the people and government of Afghanistan, and also by the US.
Campbell’s remarks on India’s donation of attack helicopters came in response to a question from Congressman Rob Wittman who wanted to know about the capabilities of the Afghan Air Force.
The three helicopters were handed over to Afghanistan during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Kabul in December last year. The fourth helicopter is expected to be delivered soon.
