Tata, Uber tie up for solutions to cab drivers ||||
 Tata Group on Thursday announced a partnership with taxi-hailing service Uber to offer vehicle purchase and ownership solutions to drivers on the Uber platform. The drivers will be provided financing solutions to purchase Tata Motors' vehicles besides insurance services, it added. The initiative, first launched in Hyderabad, aims to provide the services to 20,000 drivers in the next one year. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ddeaf1de-679d-4cdf-aac0-e63e6243ff1a-1||||
Tata companies and Uber Technologies Inc have announced a new partnership to offer driver partners on the Uber platform a comprehensive vehicle purchase and ownership solution. Owners and drivers on the Uber platform will now be able to buy fuel efficient cars like the Indica and Indigo from Tata Motors, gain access to flexible and customised financing solutions from Tata Capital Financial Services and Tata Motors Finance; and get affordable insurance from Tata AIG, Tata said in a media release on Thursday.
In addition, Tata Business Support Services will provide operational support for drivers wanting to use this new vehicle solutions program.
This is a pan-India initiative, which has been rolled out first in Hyderabad. Over the next one year, the initiative endeavors to fuel micro-entrepreneurship across India by enabling over 20,000 drivers to start their own business on the Uber platform.
The announcement of this partnership succeeds the Tata Opportunity Fund's investment in Uber last year. This partnership reflects how Uber can better support drivers in India, and how Tata companies can collaborate to deliver seamless solutions to Tata group business partners, the release added.
Madhu Kannan, Member-Group Executive Council, and Group Head for business development and public affairs, Tata Sons, said, "A unique strength of the Tata group is that it can provide convergent solutions, meeting multiple requirements of its customers, and this partnership is a distinctive example of this strength."
