"Discredited" Gujarat model cheated people: AAP ||||
 Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the people of India have a choice between the AAP model of governance and the "discredited" Gujarat model, which has "cheated" Indians. Kejriwal claimed the people are "so satisfied with AAPs model of governance in the national capital that if elections are held today BJP wont win even a single seat". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/783bbd4a-0926-47f0-8e85-70228acd3894-1||||
Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Wednesday asked people to choose between his Delhi model of governance and the Gujarat model that “cheated” citizens.
Attacking BJP, he said: “There are two types of governance models at the moment. Our model and the way they (BJP) are working. During Lok Sabha polls, a (news) story was done on the Gujarat Model. We went to schools and hospitals in Gujarat then and found them in bad shape. Now, everyone knows what Gujarat model is. People have been cheated in the name of Gujarat model. Then, there is a Delhi model of governance. We invite everyone to compare the two models. See our Mohalla Clinics, see the work we are doing.”
Kejriwal hit out at BJP for seeking votes in the name of development and then diverting the focus to issues like the row over chanting ‘Bharat mata ki jai’.
“They took votes in the name of ‘vikas’ (development) and forgot about it after the polls. Now they say ‘Bharat Mata ki jai bolo nahi toh marenge’ (Say Bharat Mata ki jai or else we will thrash you). See what they are doing in Kashmir. During the Anna (Hazare) agitation, people chanted ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ from the heart. But they (BJP) are doing gundagardi (hooliganism)… Everyone is angry with them — students, farmers, jewellers. Even the Chief Justice (of India) wept in front of them,” he said at the AAP’s fifth national council meeting.
He further claimed that people of Delhi were “so satisfied with AAP’s model of governance” that if polls were held today “BJP won’t win a single seat”.
“We are not here only to fight elections. We are here to change the system. We will fight to win. Work so that people come with us. We have to fight elections to win 90 seats out of 100. We will fight elections to make governments and change the system,” he told AAP workers.
With the party preparing for the upcoming Punjab Assembly polls, Kejriwal hinted at a sure-shot win in the state and said AAP will only contest those seats where it was assured of a victory. Party members said AAP may also contest the Goa polls, where it is said to have received an overwhelming response.
Kejriwal also accused the Modi government of “trying its best to scuttle” AAP’s efforts.
“The world is appreciating the AAP government. The Centre is trying its best to scuttle our efforts but still we are moving ahead. We read our manifesto everyday and work on it, while they hardly remember what they promised …The Centre has done nothing. They say ‘we will do this by 2023’ because they know they won’t be in power then…Even the US says it needs to learn from Delhi’s Mohalla Clinics. By now we have made 100 of them, the number will be 1000 by the year-end…We gave historic compensation to farmers, the highest in the country. The work we have done in one year, no government has done in 10-15 years. This is happening because there is an honest government in Delhi. We are saving money in every project,” he said.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
