AAP woman activist commits suicide in Delhi ||||
 An AAP woman activist, who had earlier registered a case of molestation against a party colleague, on Wednesday allegedly committed suicide in Delhi. Her family claimed she was suffering from depression after her alleged molester was released on bail. The BJP has claimed that AAP leaders had ignored her "harassment" complaint and that this shows the "anti-woman" character of AAP. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1dc8e218-0af1-46bd-89a5-219de9c50d37-1||||
A woman activist of AAP allegedly committed suicide in Narela area of outer Delhi on Wednesday, with her family members claiming that she had gone into depression after her alleged molester, a party colleague, was released on bail.
Police said the woman consumed poisonous substance at her home in Narela in the afternoon and died during treatment at LNJP Hospital.
The woman had filed a complaint against party colleague Ramesh Wadhwa for allegedly touching her inappropriately and a case of molestation was registered in June and the accused was arrested, said a senior police officer.
Family members of the woman told police that she went into depression after bail was granted to the accused who, she had alleged, was being protected by the local MLA.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
Delhi BJP alleged that AAP leaders had ignored her “harassment” complaint. “It may be recalled this girl had been raising issue of her harassment for months but AAP leaders ignored. This incident has established anti-woman character of AAP,” said Delhi BJP president Satish Upadhyay in a statement.
“Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and local MLA Sharad Chauhan are responsible for her death,” he alleged.
AAP refuted the allegations and accused BJP of playing politics over her death.
“There is no mention of the MLA’s name in any of the complainants. Whosoever is alleged to have harassed the girl has no connection with the party. The BJP should not stoop this low and play politics over the death of a poor girl. We also want action against the culprit,” AAP spokesperson Deepak Bajpai said.
