'Want to do Kalpana Chawla, Gayatri Devi biopics' ||||
 Actress Prachi Desai has said that if she gets to do a biopic, she would choose to portray astronaut Kalpana Chawla and the late Maharani Gayatri Devi of Jaipur. "One is royal and the other is going to be so scientific... I think its amazing if I can ever get to play (them)," said Prachi. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a73ed380-e8e0-4b61-9616-30df499ccae4-1||||
After portraying former cricketer Mohammad Azharuddin’s first wife Naureen in the biographical sports drama film “Azhar”, actress Prachi Desai says she is keen to essay astronaut Kalpana Chawla and the late Maharani Gayatri Devi of Jaipur on-screen.
Asked whom would she like to portray in a biopic, Prachi told IANS: “There would be plenty… Actually there are two that I can name right now because they are drastically different. One would be Kalpana Chawla and the other would be Gayatri Devi.”
Prachi, who shared screen space with actor Emraan Hashmi for the second time in “Azhar”, which will premiere on Sony Max on August 14, says both the persons are “amazingly different”.
“One is royal and the other is going to be so scientific… I think it’s amazing if I can ever get to play (them),” Prachi said.
In her eight-year journey in Bollywood, she has mostly essayed roles of the girl-next-door on screen. Now actress Prachi Desai, who is keen to break that image, says artistes do get slotted in genres.
Asked if she is open to break her girl-next-door image, Prachi told IANS over phone from Mumbai: “The very moment someone offers me a fabulous role, I am totally game for it. I think it is certainly a matter of chance and opportunity which I think is needed here.
“Yes, I do think that actors do get typecast. I think you do get slotted into genres.”
Prachi, whose last big screen outing was with the sports drama “Azhar”, which will be airing on Sony Max on August 14, feels people slot actors and “just try to exploit that over and over again.”
“Also, I think it’s easy for the audience to relate to you with that… (But) I have a lot more to offer,” she said.
The 27-year-old actress says she can dabble in various genres of films.
What genre would she like to explore?
“The one genre I really want to do is a love story,” she added.
The 27-year-old actress will next be seen in the second part of the 2008 rock musical drama film “Rock On!!”, which also features Farhan Akhtar, Arjun Rampal and Purab Kohli.
Directed by Shujaat Saudagar, “Rock On 2!!” also stars actress Shraddha Kapoor, who is the new addition in the cast.
The film traced the story of Magiq, a Hindi rock band and its members, their lives and friendship.
