Uttarakhand floor test to be held on May 10: SC ||||
 The Supreme Court on Friday said a floor test will be held in the Uttarakhand Assembly on May 10. This comes after the Centre agreed to the floor test. The nine disqualified Congress MLAs are not allowed to participate in the court-monitored test. Further, Presidents rule will be lifted between 11 am-1 pm on the day of the test. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/aa56c436-9020-4269-8023-ffabc44698b1-1||||
PAVING THE way for ending the political impasse in Uttarakhand, the Supreme Court on Friday ordered a floor test in the assembly on May 10. The court, however, refused to allow the nine rebel Congress MLAs to cast their votes, stating that the appeal against their disqualification is pending before the Uttarakhand High Court.
The petition of the disqualified MLAs, led by former chief minister Vijay Bahuguna, is set to come up before the Uttarakhand High Court on Saturday.
Ordering suspension of President’s Rule in the state for two hours on May 10, the Supreme Court bench of Justices Dipak Misra and Shiva Kirti Singh Friday ordered a special session of the assembly to be convened from 11 am to 1 pm, during which the floor test would take place.
“The only agenda in the assembly would be the vote of confidence sought by Harish Rawat. Nothing else shall be discussed in the assembly. The proceedings in the assembly are expected to be absolutely peaceful and without any disturbance,” said the bench, ordering the entire proceedings to be videographed.
“On the confidence motion having been put, a division of the House shall take place and the members who are inclined to vote in favour of the motion shall sit on the one wing/side, and the others who are against the motion shall sit on the other wing/ side,” ordered the bench. The directive was passed after the central government accepted the court’s suggestion in this regard.
The principal secretary of the legislative assembly has been entrusted with the task of ensuring that voting is done properly. “Members voting in favour of motion shall singularly vote and raise hand one by one, and that will be counted by principal secretary, legislative assembly,” said the bench.
The bench directed the principal secretary to place before it, in a sealed cover, all the documents, including the result and video of the entire proceedings on May 11. The court also asked the chief secretary and DGP of  Uttarakhand to “see that all qualified members participate and attend the proceedings safely and no hindrance is caused by anyone”.
The court turned down a plea by senior advocate C A Sundaram, who had requested the bench allow the disqualified MLAs to vote, saying their votes could be kept in a sealed cover till the high court rules on their appeal against disqualification.
“This matter is not before us. That (allowing the disqualified MLAs to vote) would be inappropriate. President’s Rule and the Speaker’s decision in 10th Schedule of the Constitution are two distinct things.This court cannot direct them to participate in the assembly,” said the bench. It, however, clarified that its observations on not allowing them to vote on May 10 would not cause any prejudice to the merit of their appeal before the high court.
As the hearing began on Friday, Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi submitted that the Centre agreed with the court’s suggestion that a floor test is necessary to prove majority in the current case. The AG said the modalities needed to be worked out and an independent observer should be brought in for the floor test.
This plea was opposed by senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Kapil Sibal, who represented Rawat. The bench agreed with Rawat’s counsel, and said the principal secretary of the legislative assembly should act as the court-appointed observer.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
 
