Indian-origin Maoist found guilty of rape in UK ||||
 A British court found Maoist cult leader, Aravindan Balakrishnan, guilty of rape, child cruelty and imprisoning his daughter for 30 years. Balakrishnan ran a secretive cult from 1975 to 2013 in which he brainwashed his followers into believing he was an all-powerful leader. 'Comrade Bala' claimed he was being targeted by jealous women who made sexual advances on him. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/51815634-0017-0012-0825-000012345678||||
A 75-year-old Indian-origin Maoist cult leader was today found guilty of rape, child cruelty and falsely imprisoning his daughter for 30 years by a British court.
Kerala-born Aravindan Balakrishnan, who led a secretive Maoist commune in south London from 1975 to 2013 after emigrating from Singapore, has been accused of raping female followers and imprisoning his own daughter for 30 years after brainwashing them into believing he was an all-powerful and all-seeing leader.
He was referred to as “Comrade Bala”. Balakrishnan, who faces life sentence when he is sentenced on Monday, was found guilty of most of the 16 charges brought against him at a Southwark Crown Court trial today. He denied the charges and told the jury that he was “the focus of competition” between “jealous” women who made sexual advances on him.
“There was no force involved, there was no deception involved,” he said, claiming his alleged rape victim, who cannot be named, “was extremely competitive” with another follower Sian Williams with whom he admitted having an affair in the commune. The verdicts follow a two-year police investigation into a case which Scotland Yard detectives described as “completely unique”.
Balakrishnan’s daughter, who cannot be named, spent her entire life until the age of 30 effectively imprisoned in the commune ruled by her father. She escaped with two other women from a house in Peckford Place, Brixton, sparking a police probe during which two more of his victims came forward.
A British woman, now 64, said she was inside the cult from 1979 to 1989 while a Malaysian woman said she was involved from 1977 to 1992. Both alleged that Balakrishnan beat, raped and sexually assaulted them. Balakrishnan established the Workers’ Institute of Marxism-Leninism-Mao Zedong Thought at Acre Lane in Brixton, south London in 1975 and turned it into a secretive cult in which he led a small group of no more than 10 women in what he believed was preparation for China to take over the world and create “an international dictatorship of the proletariat”.
Balakrishnan faced 16 charges including rape, sexual assault and assault of two women and wrongful imprisonment and child cruelty in respect of his daughter, who was born in the secretive commune and only escaped aged 30 having lived in almost total isolation for all of her life.
