Rajnath shown Bdesh pic in Assam floods report ||||
 Assam government on Saturday goofed up by including a picture from 2014 Bangladesh floods in Assam floods report presented to Home Minister Rajnath Singh. Later, the government put out an urgent corrigendum, admitting it was an inadvertent mistake. The official responsible for the mistake has been suspended. Singh was in Assam to take stock of the flood situation. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3e3cc535-7691-4a20-8ab6-064521fd833f-1||||
A senior Assam Civil Service officer was on Saturday placed under suspension by the state government after holding her primarily responsible for a major faux pas in which a photograph from the Bangladesh floods of 2014 found its way into the Assam government’s interim report on the current floods handed over to none other than Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh.
While the 10-page interim report, which Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal handed over to Rajnath Singh in Guwahati had nine pictures showing the fury of the floods, it were journalists who attended the Singh’s press conference at the end of his visit to the flood-hit state who discovered that one of the photographs was not from Assam, but from the 2014 floods in Bangladesh, which was carried along with a report in The Daily Mail of London.
Two hours later, Dipak Kumar Sarma, chief executive officer of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) put out an “urgent corrigendum” to the media through an e-mail which said that “a pictorial error has occurred inadvertently showing photograph of rescue of a spotted deer which is not related to Assam” in the interim report submitted to the union home minister.
An hour later, another press release, issued by the Assam Chief Minister’s Office said Madhumita Bhagaboty, Civil SDO of Kaliabor sub-division in Nagaon district was placed under suspension with immediate effect for forwarding to a government whatsapp group the picture showing a person rescuing a deer and saying it was from Kaziranga National Park that is also currently reeling under floods. While the photograph was subsequently included in the government’s interim report on floods to Singh on Saturday, the government later finding it to be not from Kaziranga, placed the officer under suspension. Bhagaboty is a 1995-batch office of the Assam Civil Service.
READ | Assam death toll 26; Rajnath Singh makes aerial survey, calls for long-term steps 
Though the CM’s office press release did not mention that the photograph was from the 2014 floods of Bangladesh and was published in The Daily Mail of London, the press release however warned of stern action against officers who discharged their duties in an irresponsible manner. “The state government considers deputy commissioners and sub-divisional officers as eyes and ears of the administrative machinery. The government will not tolerate if officers discharged their duties in an irresponsible manner. Stern action will be taken against officers who discharged their duties in an irresponsible manner,” the CMO’s press release said.
