Eatery discriminated against street kids: Probe ||||
 A Delhi government probe panel has found the Shiv Sagar restaurant in New Delhi guilty of discrimination and denying service to street children. The restaurant had claimed that it was asked to provide free food for the children. The report said, "the children were denied food... despite the fact that they were ready to pay for the same." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1336e70a-f688-441c-bfef-93384536d51d-1||||
Investigation by a fact-finding committee of the Delhi government has found that Shiv Sagar restaurant at Janpath had refused to serve food to a group of street children last week.
The commitee’s report comes a day after Delhi Police registered a case of criminal intimidation against the owner of the restaurant.
The committee had started investigating the matter after a woman, Sonali Shetty, claimed that when she took a group of street children for lunch at Shiv Sagar, the restaurant had refused to serve them food. Restaurant authorities, however, claimed Shetty had demanded free food for the children.
Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had ordered an inquiry into the incident. The inquiry was conducted by a sub-divisional magistrate.
“From the aforementioned facts and circumstances, it is evident that the children were denied food by the restaurant despite the fact that they were ready to pay for the same…. This refusal clearly establishes discriminatory behaviour of the restaurant management and staff against the children on socio-economic basis. Such an act violates the human rights and fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, and is against its spirit and essence,” stated the report.
Shetty said, “I was waiting for the report. It is necessary to ensure that such children will not be discriminated against by our society.”
Sources said Sisodia also raised the issue at a meeting with Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung Wednesday. “It was observed that the restaurant’s action was inhuman. The government will take very strict action,” said a source.
