OP Sharma arrested, given bail over court attack ||||
 BJP MLA OP Sharma was today arrested and later released on bail the same day, for assaulting CPI leader Ameeque Jamei at Patiala House Court. Sharma was sent summons after a media outcry regarding police inaction over the incident, the police said. The MLA was earlier caught on camera thrashing Jamei on the day of JNUSU President Kumar's hearing. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/13477272-0016-0002-2001-000012345678||||
BJP MLA O P Sharma, who was caught on camera assaulting a CPI worker at the Patiala House Courts complex Monday, was arrested and released on bail Thursday.
“He was questioned by police for eight hours and later arrested. A case under sections 323 (causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restrain) and 160 (affray) of IPC has been registered against him at Tilak Marg police station,” said a senior police officer.
But police did not record Sharma’s statement, said sources, and soon after his arrest, he was released on bail.
JNU Row: What Delhi Police’s Failure To Ensure Order At The Patiala House Court Tells Us

Delhi Police had come under severe criticism for dragging their feet in the matter, despite video footage of the incident that showed Sharma assaulting the CPI worker in the court complex.
“Sharma was questioned by a senior officer, but his statement was not recorded by police. During questioning, he told police that he was leaving the court premises when someone pushed him. He said he did not know who had pushed him. He said he fell down on one of the protesters and people started beating him up,” said sources.
The BJP MLA from Vishwas Nagar told police that he merely retaliated when people started to “hit him”, said sources.
After being released on bail, Sharma told mediapersons, “If someone has to pay such a price for stopping someone who was raising pro-Pakistan slogans, then I have got nothing to say.”
On Wednesday, police had issued summons to the MLA as well as three lawyers in connection with the attack on journalists, as well as students and teachers from the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), at the court complex Monday.
Various groups had gathered there for the bail hearing of Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) president Kanhaiya Kumar, arrested on charges of sedition.
The lawyers are yet to depose before police.
