3 BJP men involved in Dadri lynching: Mulayam ||||
 SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav on Wednesday claimed that the Dadri mob lynching incident in September 2015 that left a 50-year-old dead over suspicion that he consumed beef involved three BJP men. Yadav, who was speaking at a youth convention at the party headquarters, added that if PM Narendra Modi calls him, he will reveal those names. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/55979395-0004-0001-8492-000012345678||||
More than four months after a man was lynched in Dadri allegedly on suspicion that he was consuming and storing beef, Samajwadi Party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav claimed that at least three men involved in killing belong to BJP and he can reveal the names if Prime Minister calls him.
“BJP had promised to remove discrimination. What discrimination have they removed? A father was killed while his son was posted on border. I had earlier spoken of three names who were involved in the killing. Those are associated with BJP. If PM calls, I will give all names,” Mulayam said at a youth convention of the party at the SP headquarters here.
The SP chief, however, didn’t take the names of the Bisara village in Dadri area of Gautam Budh Nagar or the victim 50-year-old Mohammad Akhlaq who was killed by a mob on September 28. Mulayam had then claimed that the lynching was a conspiracy “hatched by three persons from a specific organisation” who had played a similar role in the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. He had then refused to identify the trio or the organisation, saying his party would first conduct an inquiry.
Read | 3 behind Dadri lynching also had role in Muzaffarnagar, from 1 group, says Mulayam Singh Yadav 
His latest remarks came as he slammed the Narendra Modi government for failing to fulfil promises BJP made in the run-up to the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.
“They had promised employment. They also made promises to Muslims but did nothing for them. Borders are not safe. He (Modi) had talked of removing Chinese encroachment on Indian territory. But when Chinese premier came visiting, his army too was entering India,” he said.
He asked SP workers to make people aware of the achievements of Akhilesh Yadav government if the party wanted to retain power in 2017 Assembly polls. “The government has done lots of good work. If we cannot win after doing such good work, then we will never be able to form the government,” Mulayam said.
Mulayam said he had not expected Akhilesh to deliver such good results, but his son proved him wrong. He said Akhilesh had waived loans of poor farmers and provided them free water for irrigation, medicines and education. “Akhilesh has already fulfilled the promises the party made in its manifesto. But, party units are not spreading awareness regarding these achievements.”
The SP chief also said that initially he was against the Lucknow Metro Rail project. “Later I directed Akhilesh to complete it before (2017) polls,” he added.
Speaking on the recent action of expelling youth leaders Sunil Singh Yadav “Sajan”, Anand Bhadauria and Subodh Yadav for anti-party activities, he said, “The action passed the message that when these leaders who are very close to Akhilesh can face action then indiscipline by others will not be tolerated”. Mulayam said he took these leaders back in the party after they admitted their mistakes and assured not to repeat that again in future.
