BJP has use and throw policy: JD(U) on Sidhu ||||
 Janata Dal (United) leader KC Tyagi on Tuesday said the Bharatiya Janata Party believes in a 'use and throw' policy, talking about cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu's resignation as BJP's Rajya Sabha MP. Sidhu recently claimed to have resigned because he was "told to stay away from Punjab". Tyagi added that he agreed with Sidhu's "anguish". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/44e74ce3-5b85-4261-8012-d33985926b38-1||||
With Navjot Singh Sidhu claiming that he quit the Rajya Sabha because he was asked to stay away from Punjab, the Janata Dal (United) on July 26 said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) did a use and throw policy with the cricketer-turned-politician. “Navjot Singh Sidhu is the star campaigner of the Bharatiya Janata Party for the last ten years. I agree with his anguish. The BJP believes in use and throw policy and this is the behaviour they did with Sidhu,” JD (U) leader K.C. Tyagi told ANI.
Sidhu on July 25 finally broke his silence on his resignation from Parliament and said that he stepped down as the Rajya Sabha MP because he was asked to stay away from Punjab.
“I was told to stay away from Punjab. Why was I told to do so? How can I leave Punjab for some selfish gains? I am a true nationalist. No party is bigger than Punjab. I only want to serve Punjab and Amritsar. If this was the first time, I could have still tolerated. But this is the third or fourth time that this has happened. When Modi ji came to power, I was also suppressed along with the opposition,” he told the media.
The former cricketer, who was thrice the Lok Sabha member from the BJP, was asked to make way for fellow party colleague Arun Jaitley in Amritsar during the 2014 general election.
“I was asked to fight the elections from Kurukshetra, then West Delhi. I said no, I won’t betray my people. Today, they are telling me to leave Punjab. They should tell me my fault,” he said.
Sidhu, however, did not elaborate his future plans as he did not disclose whether he was joining the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) or desired to be Punjab’s chief ministerial candidate.
He had last week resigned from the Rajya Sabha, only about three months after his nomination by the government.
