Shiv Sena leader held for staging attack on self ||||
 The Ludhiana police has arrested Shiv Senas Punjab Youth President Amit Arora for orchestrating an attack on himself in February. Arora had earlier said he was shot at by two people, but a forensics probe found the claims to be untrue. Later, Arora reportedly confessed that he planned the attack to get an escort vehicle...fame, and higher position in Shiv Sena. ||||
 Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d8c92f2e-e65b-4909-be70-22de816627b1-1||||
LUDHIANA POLICE Thursday arrested Shiv Sena Punjab Youth president Amit Arora for “orchestrating” an attack on himself four months ago. Arora had claimed that two persons on a motorbike opened fire on him on February 4 and that a bullet grazed his neck.
However, the forensic probe found that neither any motorbike had come on the spot nor was was Arora fired at.
Arora, along with his a policeman and a helper, injured his neck using a piece of ‘sariya’ (iron), according to the police.
Police said Arora, in his confession, has said that “he wanted an escort vehicle like senior politicians, fame, and higher position in Shiv Sena” and that “he planned the attack to garner sympathy from Hindu community”.
Speaking to The Indian Express, DCP, Ludhiana, Dhruman Nimbale, said, “We found sharp differences between his medical legal report (MLR) and report from Central Forensic Science Lab, Chandigarh. As per MLR, it was an ‘alleged gunshot injury’ on his neck but the forensic report clearly stated that there was no burn or even blackening on the skin. He had claimed that two persons on motorcycle fired on him. As per the allegations, it was a close range firing so there had to be skin burn or at least gunpowder blackening evidence but none was found.”
Watch Video: What's making news
Later, it was found that Arora took a piece of ‘sariya’ (sharp iron) from a construction site nearby and peeled off skin on his neck with it, police said. “It was not a deep injury and it was intentional. He was trying to show that bullet just frisked his neck. He even claimed that bullet came into his hand when he touched the injury. But what we found from the spot was 9mm shell and had it actually even frisked his neck, there would have been much deeper mark,” said the DCP.
Arora’s helper Mani and head constable Om Prakash, who was his security guard since almost a year, too have been arrested. An FR under sections 420 (cheating), 417 (punishment for cheating), 177 (furnishing false information), 193 (punishment for false information), 120-B (conspiracy), 34 (criminal act done by several persons) and section 25 of Arms Act have been registered.
Following the alleged attack, DCP Nimbale said Arora’s security was raised, from one policeman to four.
Among Arora’s sympathisers then were then BJP state president Kamal Sharma and Punjab Shiv Sena chief Rajiv Tandon who had demanded immediate arrest of the accused. Raising anti-Khalistan and anti-Sikh slogans, Sena activists had also forced shopkeepers to shut shops in Chaura Bazaar of Ludhiana on February 4 in protest against the alleged attack.
