Mercedes runs over 5 people in Mumbai ||||
 A Mercedes Benz car, being driven by 46-years-old Amin Yusuf Shaikh, hit a pavement in Mumbai's Bhendi Bazaar area on Thursday night, injuring five people. The car belonged to Shaikh's friend. One of the five injured sustained a fracture, while the others escaped with minor injuries. Shaikh was arrested by the Pydhonie police, who are awaiting his blood alcohol report. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/44006485-0006-0001-7587-000012345678||||
A 46-year-old man driving a Mercedes Benz car at high speed hit five people on the pavement in the Bhendi Bazaar area of south Mumbai last night. Amin Yusuf Shaikh, who was driving the Jharkhand registered four-wheeler that belonged to his friend, was arrested by the Pydhonie police. Of the five injured, one sustained a fracture, while others escaped with minor injuries.
Four people were rushed to JJ Hospital after the accident at 12.30 am Friday. According to on-duty medical officer, 25-year-old Munira Shaikh is admitted in ward number 11 with a fracture in her collarbone and several abrasions. “She is stable and under observation,” the doctor said.
The other injured victims, including a child, were treated on out patient department basis. Four-year-old Rahul Moinuddin Shaikh complained of pain in his right shoulder. He was bandaged and discharged immediately.
According to JJ hospital’s dean, Dr T P Lahane, two other injured women were discharged after treatment.
Alisha Shaikh (40) suffered a fracture in her hip bone and Rashida Shaikh (20) had pain in right thigh but suffered no broken limbs. “Both were given medical aid but required no admission,” Lahane said.
A police officer said that prima facie it did not appear Shaikh, who is a contractor and owns the nearly 250 clean up vehicles used by the BMC , was drunk. However they were awaiting blood alcohol reports. Senior inspector of Pydhonie police station SR Kavlekar said that Shaikh’s friend had recently purchased the four-wheeler and told him that it “touches 120 kmph in a minute. Excited, Shaikh asked for spin in the vehicle.”
Shaikh drove the vehicle at high speed but could not control it. He went on to hit a parked car below the JJ flyover on the Mohammad Ali Road in the Bhendi Bazaar area of south Mumbai. The vehicle then hit the group of five people who were sitting and talking near a divider. “Had his vehicle hit directly, there would have been casualties,” the senior inspector said.
The locals then handed over Shaikh to the local Pydhonie police that arrested him on charges of rash and negligent driving and causing grievous hurt, both of which are bailable offences.
