Harry Potter and the Cursed Child book launched ||||
 The book based on the script of the play 'Harry Potter and the Cursed Child' launched on Sunday globally. This is JK Rowlings eighth Harry Potter story written along with Jack Thorne and John Tiffany. Thorne scripted the two-part play based on the original story, which begins 19 years after 'Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows', which was published in 2007. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/355d5dd7-2166-437c-ba2d-bff6d0d29f0f-1||||
New Delhi, Jul 31 (PTI) Potterheads from across the country are divided over the format of the latest book in the Potter franchise, "Harry Potter and the Cursed Child" which unlike the previous books is not a novel but a play.
While most fans are too overwhelmed with the comeback of the magical world of Hogwarts to be disappointed with the change in genre, there are many who are keen to look at the series that defined their childhoods, in a different light.
"I cannot wait to keep my life on hold for you, 'Cursed Child.' Please be good," says Debsruti Basu from Kolkata.
Basu preordered her copy of "Harry Potter and the Cursed Child" and "a few more to give away" on the very day Amazon began its preordering stint in February.
Even though it has been almost a decade since "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows" was published in 2007, Pottermaniacs have refused to let the fandom die out and lived off "fan fictions, cosplays, book reading sessions, rummaging through hints and the Pottermore website."
"My anticipation for the 'Cursed Child' mostly has to do with the excitement we all felt as children. The waiting for the books, discussing what might be in it, standing in line for a copy, not doing anything till you have finished the books...For me, it is not about finding out how the story continues. It's about losing myself again in the magical world that Rowling created," says Anouk, who is a Dutch national who works on museum projects in India.
For many readers like Basu, the genre of writing - a play or a novel - does not define her fandom for the series and she says she will "take any Potter story as long as we are getting it in the form of a hardbound greatness that'll follow the rest on our book cases."
For most people, particularly the 90's children, the return of the franchise, irrespective of the presentation, is more of an opportunity to relive their childhood.
Nilotpal Bansal, a law student here says, "The franchise is so close to me that the format doesn't really matter. However, I would have to read it before I know for sure.
