'Will stall Parliament if BJP targets Congress' ||||
 Accusing BJP of lodging false cases against its leaders, Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Saturday said, "If you do like this and your slogan is Congress-mukt India, then Parliament will not function." "Parliament will only run when you do the right politics and do the right things to take the country forward, Sibal said accusing BJP of using vendetta politics. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0a340c48-9ca6-4973-8cf6-4926acdfc7b8-1||||
Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Saturday accused BJP of targeting its leaders by lodging false cases against them and said Parliament will not function if this continues.
On claims by BJP that it would get the key GST Bill passed in Parliament in its next session, he dubbed the Modi government as a “majoritarian” government which can get anything done, “sometimes by threats and sometimes with love”.
“Parliament will run when you do the right politics and do the right things to take the country forward,” he said at a conclave of TV news channel News24.
Accusing the Modi dispensation of indulging in vendetta politics, he said “when they were in the opposition, they never allowed Parliament to function for the last ten years. In the last two years what they were doing, we never did like that. We never lodged false cases against their leaders, never targeted them.”
Sibal said what BJP is doing today is to target Sonia Gandhi and then target Rahul, besides other senior Congress leaders like P Chidambaram, Bhupinder Hooda, Harish Rawat, Virbhadra Singh and Ashok Chavan.
“Then they will lodge false cases against them. If you do like this and your slogan is Congress-mukt India, then Parliament will not function. Because, Parliament will only run when you do the right politics and do the right things to take the country forward,” he said in reply to a question on why Congress did not allow Parliament to function.
Asked if “surgery” is required in Congress after recent assembly poll debacle, the former Union Minister said if the country has to move forward ‘surgery’ has to be carried out.
“For the country to move forward, there should be surgery everywhere. Change takes place with thought and with debate. I am sure my party will certainly have that debate,” he said.
To a question on the Ishrat Jehan encounter killing case, the Congress leader asked “was CBI speaking a lie? Was the magisterial probe false?”
He also attacked the Modi government of making “false promises” and said if one crore jobs are created “I will certainly back them. But the question is why do you tell a lie to people”?
