Bajpayee gifts 1,000 pairs of shoes to students ||||
 Actor Manoj Bajpayee along with Sports Minister Vijay Goel on Monday distributed one thousand pairs of shoes to students of NP Boys Senior Secondary School in New Delhi. "It is a small attempt to help the children who couldnt afford good sports shoes," said Bajpayee. The actor is currently promoting his upcoming film, 'Budhia Singh - Born To Run'. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/dc3a8d08-facb-4e52-9fc0-193b11005aee-1||||
Actor Manoj Bajpayee, who is awaiting the release of “Budhia Singh – Born To Run”, on Monday distributed 1,000 pairs of shoes to school children along with Sports Minister Vijay Goel here.
The actor says it was a small attempt to help children who are not able to afford them.
“It is a small attempt to help the children who couldn’t afford good sports shoes. The shoes that we gifted to the school children is a token of appreciation which I hope will be of great help to them,” Manoj said in a statement.
Manoj, who will be seen essaying the real life character of Biranchi Das — the man who coached a boy named Budhia to run for marathons — in the biopic, also urged everyone to support the film for the bright future of onscreen Budhia Singh, child artiste Mayur Patole.
Mayur, who lives in a ‘chawl’ in Pune, was selected for the role after director Soumendra Padhi auditioned 1200 children.
Produced by Viacom18 Motion Pictures and Code Red Film Productions, “Budhia Singh – Born To Run” will hit the screens on August 5.
Manoj distributed the pair of shoes with Ajit Andhare, Chief Operating Officer, Viacom18 Motion Pictures, and Padhi at NP Boys Senior Secondary School at Mandir Marg here. Mayur was also present there.
Manoj added: “Budhia’s dream was to become a marathon runner. Similarly, Mayur’s dream is to become a doctor. Please help us to make this film big which will help children like Mayur make their dreams come true.”
The plot of “Budhia Singh – Born To Run” revolves around the life of Budhia Singh, who ran a record-breaking 65 km from Puri to Bhubaneswar in 2006 at the age of four and found a place in the Limca Book of Records. He was coached by Biranchi Das, who was actually a judo trainer.
