Rule to state Urdu books not anti-govt withdrawn ||||
 The National Council for Promotion of Urdu Language (NCPUL) has withdrawn a clause that required Urdu writers to declare that their books are not 'anti-government'. However, the writers should still refrain from writing "against national interest". The NCPUL, which is under the HRD Ministry, had imposed the condition before acquiring Urdu books for distribution among libraries. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/6d45df5e-d7e5-4685-a140-287a3107f7ad-1||||
The National Council for Promotion of Urdu Language (NCPUL) has withdrawn the controversial clause asking authors to declare that their books are not “anti-government”. They would still, however, need to refrain from writing “against national interest” or anything that creates “hatred amongst different sections of society”.
As first reported by The Indian Express on March 19, the NCPUL, an autonomous body under the Human Resource Development Ministry, had imposed some conditions on Urdu writers before acquiring their books under the ‘Bulk Purchase of Books scheme’ for distribution among libraries.
All authors were required to fill up a declaration form which stated that the content of their book is not against the government or the country. They were also expected to get this form signed by two witnesses.
The move, NCPUL director Irteza Karim had told this newspaper, was triggered by an incident last year when a book on Abul Kalam Azad put out some incorrect information.
The form, however, was criticised by authors and was described as an attempt to stifle dissent. At a meeting in late March, council members, too, had protested against two of the provisions — that nothing could be written against government policies and the witness clause.
In face of this backlash, the council was forced to review its form and has now removed both conditions.
The amended declaration form has been uploaded on the Council’s website.
According to sources, the decision was taken after the HRD Ministry asked the council to modify the declaration form.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
