Harsimrat writes to RS Chairman against Cong MPs ||||
 Accusing Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh and Renuka Chowdhury of humiliating her in the House, Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has written to the Rajya Sabha Chairman seeking "stern action" against them. She claims that before adjournment of the House on July 22, the duo used "derogatory language" against her and "violated her dignity both as a woman and a minister". ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0ea70103-d7fb-4b2a-a7a2-1da2905936e8-1||||
New Delhi, July 24 (PTI) Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has written to Rajya Sabha Chairman seeking "stern action" against Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh and Renuka Chaudhary, accusing the duo of humiliating her in the House.
Referring to the sequence of events preceding the adjournment of Rajya Sabha for the day on July 22 which saw disruptions over AAP member Bhagwant Mann's live streaming of Parliament video, Badal said Ramesh and Chaudhary used "derogatory language" against her and "violated her dignity both as a woman and a minister".
"After the House adjourned for the day, to my surprise Jairam Ramesh came rushing towards me and started using foul and offensive language without any provocation.
"He used highly objectionable aggressive discriminatory words for me. He questioned my propriety to speak in Rajya Sabha and also my presence in the House," Badal, the Akali Dal MP from Bathinda, said in her letter.
She said Chaudhary also used derogatory language against her and sought action against both the Congress MPs.
"In the meantime, Renuka Chaudhary came rushing into the House and despite being a lady started using loud derogatory language against me and called the government and its ministers kachra (garbage). Both kept screaming at me...
"I was ridiculed and humiliated in the presence of my colleagues and house staff and my dignity both as a minister and a woman were violated," the Food Processing Industries Minister said.
The minister said the attempts of Ramesh and Chaudhary to "intimidate" her had "hurt her deeply".
"I had never thought I would be subjected to such obnoxious behavior inside the House. The conduct of these two members was highly objectionable and totally unacceptable. I request you to take stern action against them in order to protect healthy democratic traditions," Badal urged Rajya Sabha Chairman Hamid Ansari.
Badal said she was in the House trying to give some information about Mann's video.
A war of words followed between Badal and Ramesh and Chaudhary, who objected to her interventions during the proceedings related to a private member's bill.
Just when Badal was speaking, Congress MP KVP Rao's private member's bill on special package to Andhra Pradesh was to be taken up but that could not happen and the House was adjourned for the day around 2.44 PM.
Badal, in her letter to the RS chairman, defended herself saying, "As a minister I have every right to have access to both the Houses and express my views. Moreover I was speaking with the permission of the Chair. And as long as I have permission of the Chair no one can deny me this privilege."
