Sonia, Rahul get bail in National Herald case ||||
 The Patiala House court on Saturday granted bail to Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Vice-President Rahul Gandhi in the National Herald case. No travel restrictions were imposed on the Gandhis, who signed bail bonds of 50,000 each. Next hearing in the case will take place on February 20. The Gandhis are accused of corruption in the now-defunct National Herald newspaper. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/19629493-0010-0012-2662-000012345678||||
Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party vice-president Rahul Gandhi have got bail on personal bonds of Rs 50,000 each in connection with the National Herald case. All the other accused have also received bail in the case without any conditions. The next hearing in the case is scheduled for February 20, 2 pm. They have not been exempted from future personal appearances, but they can travel abroad.
The trial court had summoned them as accused, taking cognisance of the complaint by BJP leader Dr Subramanian Swamy against them for alleged cheating and misappropriation of funds in taking control of the now-defunct National Herald newspaper.
Watch Video- National Herald Case: Sonia, Rahul Get Bail

See photos from the courthouse
Full coverage: National Herald case
Here are the highlights:  
3.45 pm: Modi-ji makes false allegations and he thinks the opposition will bend. I will not bend, Congress won’t bend, says Rahul Gandhi.
3:15 pm: Slogans are now being raised by Congress workers in support of the Gandhis at the party headquarters.
Click here to read the story in Hindi
3:10 pm: Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the Gandhis did not move for personal exemption from appearance in future hearings.
3:05 pm: Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the Gandhis, says the court refused to entertain Swami’s plea to impose restrictions on the passports of Sonia and Rahul.
ALSO READ: Twitterati show what they think of Sonia, Rahul Gandhi’s quick bail 
3:02 pm: BREAKING: All the accused in the case have got bail. The next hearing in the case is posted for February 20.
3:00 pm: Everything has happened in a jiffy. Both Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Vice President Rahul Gandhi have got bail in the case on a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each.
2:58 pm:
The cause list for the day at MM Loveleen Singh’s court. pic.twitter.com/sUoZrA7pr5
— Naveed Iqbal (@NaveedIqbal) December 19, 2015
2:55 pm: Arguments begin in the case, ANI reports. Kapil Sibal, Abhishek Manu Singhvi will be arguing for the Gandhis.
2:50 pm: Sonia, Rahul have arrived at the court for the hearing.
2:40 pm:
Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi on their way to Patiala House Court #NationalHerald pic.twitter.com/itlAeLfxed
— ANI (@ANI_news) December 19, 2015
2:35 pm: Former PM Manmohan Singh arrives at the courthouse. As you can read, almost all senior leaders of the party are dropping in to show solidarity for the Gandhis.
2:30 pm: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Ghulam Nabi Azad, AK Antony, Kumari Selja have arrived at the courthouse.
2:26 pm: 
2:25 pm: This country and its ‘aatma’ is with Sonia and Rahul Gandhi: Salman Khurshid
2:20 pm: Subramanian Swamy and his wife Roxna reach the court.
2:00 pm: The cavalcade of Subramanian Swamy has now departed for the Patiala court premises.
1:45 pm: From our reporter outside the court premises.
Posters supporting Sonia and Rahul Gandhi pasted on the outer wall of the Patiala House court @IndianExpress pic.twitter.com/2QYBiBpe6s
— Naveed Iqbal (@NaveedIqbal) December 19, 2015
1:40 pm: A metal detector and an x-ray machine have been installed at the entrance of the main building at the Patiala House court. The main building has been barricaded, reports Naveed Iqbal who is at the court.
1:35 pm: The Delhi police have made a designated jail at new police line at Kingsway camp in north Delhi for Gandhis. It has been designated on the orders of Lt Governor Najeeb Jung.
1:30 pm: The courtroom and 500 metres around its vicinity have been taken over by the elite Special Protection Group (SPG), that protects the Gandhis. Outside the court room, two new CCTV cameras have also been installed to further enhance the security arrangements. At 12 noon, more than 30 SPG officials along with Delhi police were also given the briefing from the senior officials at the park, adjacent to the court. For more, click here.
1:25 pm: A meeting of the leaders of the Congress party will begin soon at the residence of Ghulam Nabi Azad.
1:20 pm: Read how the Herald firm called a meeting to become a non-profit. Click here
1:15 pm: Subramanian Swamy is a stooge of PM Narendra Modi: Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala
1:10 pm: We have faith in the justice and laws of this country, says Azad.
1:00 pm: There is a heavy security presence in front of the AICC headquarters in Delhi.
12:55 pm: Robert Vadra has said the ‘politics of vendetta and desperate malicious attempts of defamation, will not be believed.’
12:50 pm: Congress’s leader in the Rajya Sabha tells reporters that the government wants to create a ‘vipaksh-mukt Bharat’ (an India without opposition). We will fight and protest against this, he said.
12:40 pm: Hours before the two leaders will appear in court, top leaders of the Congress party have started to trickle in at the AICC headquarters. They went into a huddle to discuss the media spin around the issue.
A large number of Congress workers are also present outside the party headquarters in Delhi, most of them from Rae Bareilly, the parliamentary constituency of Sonia Gandhi.
12:35 pm: How did a hotelier’s attempts to take over AJL prompted the Gandhis to take control of the group? Read here.
12:30 pm: Read our interview with Congress leader Oscar Fernandes in which he talks extensively about the case.
12:25 pm: BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad says the government has no role in the case. If Rahul Gandhi has a problem, he must approach the Supreme Court, he added.
12:20 pm: Rahul Gandhi has reached the residence of Sonia Gandhi.
12:15 pm: Congress workers are protesting across cities in the country alleging ‘political vendetta’ in the National Herald case.
