Pak raises Hizbul commander killing issue at UN ||||
 Pakistan on Thursday raised the issue of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani's killing in Jammu and Kashmir at the United Nations and demanded an independent inquiry into the matter. Pakistan's envoy to the UN, Maleeha Lodhi, also claimed that the Indian Army was violating security council resolutions and human rights in "India-occupied Kashmir" along with indulging in extra-judicial killings. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ad4723a1-2648-42b3-98f5-8c2ec2d6c5d2-1||||
Notwithstanding India’s sharp response, Pakistan has demanded a UN-backed independent and transparent inquiry into the “extra-judicial” killings in Kashmir, terming the situation there a “grave threat to peace and security”.
Pakistan’s envoy to the UN Maleeha Lodhi met Under Secretary General Edmond Mullet, the Chef de Cabinet of UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon here and pushed for the probe, according to a press release issued by the Pakistani Mission to the UN, on Thursday.
“At the United Nations, Pakistan called for an independent and transparent inquiry into the extra judicial killings in Indian occupied Kashmir, calling the situation there a grave threat to peace and security,” it said.
WATCH VIDEO: Kashmir Protests Victim: 5-Year Old Zohra On How She Got Hit
 
It added that Lodhi briefed Mullet on the “atrocious brutality” by Indian security forces in Kashmir and also raised in her meeting the killing of Hizbul commander Burhan Wani, whom she described as “a popular Kashmiri youth leader.”
Lodhi’s comments came a day after India hit back at Pakistan and accused Islamabad of not only pushing in terrorists but also fanning discontent within the Valley by providing support to terrorist outfits.
Terming Wani’s killing as an “assassination”, Lodhi said his killing had set off widespread protests and the Indian forces were resorting to “heavy handed tactics” including included firing on unarmed civilians.
WATCH VIDEO: Kashmir Protests: Visuals Of Curfew In the State
 
The release said Mullet told Lodhi that the UN Secretary General was concerned about the deteriorating situation in Kashmir and was ready to mediate peace talks between India and Pakistan provided the two neighbours accept his good offices.
Lodhi said the situation in Kashmir should be of grave concern to the international community as it poses a threat to peace and security and called the use of excessive force against civilians “exceedingly deplorable and condemnable.”
Watch Video: What’s making news 
 
“Dubbing the Kashmiris agitating for their right to self-determination as ‘terrorists’ was a travesty of truth and was further inflaming passions,” the release quoted her as saying.
