Vijay Mallya resigns from Rajya Sabha ||||
 Former Chairman of United Spirits Vijay Mallya on Monday resigned from the Rajya Sabha, a day before an Ethics Panel meeting to discuss his expulsion. The panel had on April 25 given Mallya a week's time to file a response against his expulsion. Notably, the Foreign Ministry has also initiated deportation proceedings against Mallya over alleged money laundering charges. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/065fa9bf-a784-4b86-9a13-dd7acdbcfc28-1||||
Independent MP Vijay Mallya, who faces a case of loan default of over Rs 9,400 crore, resigned from the Rajya Sabha Monday, a day before the Ethics Committee of the House was expected to recommend his disqualification.
The Ethics Committee move had only symbolic value, as the liquor baron had less than two months of his six-year tenure left. He had been elected from Karnataka for a second time.
“I am hereby resigning as a member of the Rajya Sabha with immediate effect,” Mallya stated in his letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman Mohammad Hamid Ansari, adding that he did not wish his name and reputation to be “further dragged in the mud”. “Recent events”, according to him, “suggest that I will not get a fair trial or justice”.
Mallya wrote that he had separately replied to Ethics Committee chairman Karan Singh. He told Singh that the allegations against him were “blatantly false and baseless”. He said: “I am shocked that the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance, Government of India, has provided factually wrong information to a Parliament committee”.
The Ethics Committee, at a meeting held on April 25, unanimously resolved that Mallya should no longer remain a member of the House.
It had posted the matter for Tuesday, May 3, for recommending his expulsion in order to comply with requisite procedural requirements.
While Janata Dal (United) parliamentary party leader Sharad Yadav had made a forceful plea for Mallya’s expulsion, many other members felt the need to give him a week’s time to explain his position. The committee had sought details of the liabilities of Mallya’s Kingfisher Airlines due to the 13 banks. It turned out that the total liability amounted to Rs 9,431.65 crore.
The government had earlier revoked Mallya’s passport. He fled to Britain in March after attending the first part of the Budget Session for a few days.
Rajya Sabha secretariat says it has not received Vijay Mallya’s resignation yet
— ANI (@ANI_news) May 2, 2016
Vijay Mallya resigns from Rajya Sabha, writes to chairman of Rajya Sabha & Ethics committee chairman
— ANI (@ANI_news) May 2, 2016
Appending a copy of his reply to Singh, Mallya, who faxed his resignation to the Rajya Sabha Chairman, asserted, “The allegations against me are blatantly false and baseless.”
He added, “Since I do not want my name and reputation to be further dragged in the mud and since recent events suggest that I will not get a fair trial or justice, I am hereby resigning as a member of the Rajya Sabha with immediate effect.”
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
