Shocked at media trials against me: Zakir Naik ||||
 Islamic cleric Zakir Naik on Monday said he was shocked at the media trials against him after reports that a terrorist involved in the Dhaka cafe attack was reportedly inspired by his speeches. "[T]he media is the most important weapon in the world. It can convert a hero into villain or a villain into hero," Naik said. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/e3c3dce6-77bf-4784-8abd-3ff31919704c-1||||
Amid growing demand for a ban on his TV channel and FIR against him, Islamic preacher Zakir Naik on Monday said he is shocked at the media trial against him regarding the terrorist attack in Dhaka.
“I am shocked at the media trial on me regarding the recent terrorist attack that took place in Dhaka Bangladesh on 1st July 2016,” said Naik in a media statement.
WATCH VIDEO: Dhaka Attack: Zakir Naik Says He Did Not Influence Anyone
Zakir’s statement
“According to me, the media is the most important weapon in the world. It can convert a hero into villain or even a villain into a hero.
I’m shocked at the media trial on me regarding the recent terrorist attack that took place in Dhaka Bangladesh on 1st July 2016. Most of the clips shown on the television of myself are either out of context, half statements or doctored. So are my statements in the print media.
I would have loved to give interviews whether for television channels or for the print media, but I fear that most of them will not publish it unedited or without twisting it. I came to this conclusion after I had given a few interviews, most of which were unfortunately mutilated and misutilised to serve the vested agenda of the channel or the newspaper.
If time permits, God willing, in the next few days I will give replies to some of the major allegations on video and give it to the media as well as put it up on social media as well as other public platforms so that the original answers are also available if the media misutilises it.
So far not a single official Indian government agency has contacted me for any clarification regarding this issue. It would be my pleasure to cooperate with any official Indian government investigation agency for any information they might require from me.
In conclusion, I repeat what I have always maintained – I DO NOT SUPPORT TERRORISM OR VIOLENCE in any form whatsoever. I have never supported any terrorist organisations and have mentioned this over and over again in thousands of my public talks worldwide. I STRONGLY CONDEMN anyone taking my statements out of context and using it for VIOLENCE OF ANY FORM.”
Zakir Abdul Karim Naik, 51, is an Islamic preacher, who founded the Islamic Research Foundation in 1991 when he started Dawah or religious preaching.
His lectures mostly revolve around how Islam is superior to all other faiths. While he claims to be an advocate of interfaith dialogue, his preaching’s’ reinforce all the stereotypes which exist against Muslims.
Following reports that one of the militants of Dhaka terror attack was inspired by Naik’s misinterpretations of Islam, there are growing demand for strict action against him.
Apart from coming under scanner in India, Bangladesh has also banned the broadcast of Naik’s Peace TV,cracking down on the channel and radical sermons by the ‘teleevnagelist.’
