EC seeks independence from govt control ||||
 In a recent meeting with the Law Secretary, the Election Commission of India has requested full independence from government control. Currently, the EC depends on the Law Ministry for its finances and the Department of Personnel and Training for its appointments. This is a part of the EC's fresh push for electoral reforms before the assembly elections later this year. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/37658500-0007-0001-5454-000012345678||||
THE ELECTION Commission of India (ECI) has sought complete independence from government control in a meeting held this week with the Law Secretary.
As first reported by The Indian Express on November 13, 2015, the poll panel had requested a meeting with Law Secretary G Narayana Raju to make a fresh push for pending reforms and proposed changes to the electoral process before the next cluster of assembly polls this year.
The ECI on Tuesday reiterated its demand for constitutional protection for all three of its members as opposed to just one at present. Currently, only the Chief Election Commissioner can be removed through impeachment in Parliament. His two colleagues, however, can be removed by the government on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner.
In addition to the above, the poll panel sought absolute financial freedom from the Law Ministry. Like the CAG and UPSC, the ECI wants its budget to be ‘charged’ to the Consolidated Fund as opposed to the current practice of being voted and approved by Parliament.
The ECI has also proposed an independent secretariat for itself with which it will not have to depend on DoPT to appoint its officers. If it is approved by the Law Ministry, the poll panel will be free to frame its own recruitment rules and shortlist and appoint officers on its own. It can then also draw competent professionals and experts from the job market.
Apart from the above, the EC pushed for the introduction of totaliser machines for counting of votes and multiple cut-off dates for voter registration. The totaliser machine increases the secrecy of voting by counting votes polled at 14 polling booths together, as against the current practice of announcing booth-wise results.
According to the poll watchdog, the identification of area-wise voting trends could encourage candidates and political parties to be vindictive with voters of those areas who did not vote for them.
The election commissioners drew the law secretary’s attention to the fact that the government hasn’t yet made budgetary provision for purchase of new voting machines.
