Don't publicise harassment cases: JNU to pupils ||||
 Faculty and students of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) have been asked not to publicise sexual harassment cases and maintain confidentiality. It has been alleged the gender sensitisation committee of the university violates the confidentiality of complainants, due to which they are defamed. Among universities, JNU had reported the maximum number of sexual harassment cases. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/27217078-0014-0012-3738-000012345678||||
Facing criticism after the highest number of sexual harassment cases were reported from there, the Jawaharlal Nehru University has directed its students and faculty to refrain from “publicising” such incidents and maintain strict “confidentiality”.
A group of JNU teachers had also recently criticised the varsity’s Gender Sensitisation Committee Against Sexual Harassment (GSCASH), alleging its processes were “perverted” and confidentiality with regard to complaints was being “blatantly violated” leading to “defaming” the complainants and putting their integrity on “public trial”.
“The entire JNU community is requested to uphold the principles of gender justice, which includes maintaining strict confidentiality about GSCASH cases. The committee actively tries to counter any attempt to create a hostile environment which includes instilling an atmosphere of fear and silence,” the varsity said in an official communication.
“Making public the confidential and personal details of any case or individuals adds in creating a hostile environment rather than containing it. This kind of irresponsible behaviour on part of any member or group on campus to further narrow political gains is not appreciated,” it added.
The communication further said, “such acts tantamount to grave violation of privacy of those who have entrusted faith in GSCASH. Any such incident should be reported to GSCASH instead of publicising. This will further aggravate and amplify the sufferings of the concerned and will have a detrimental effect on mental peace and tranquility”.
