'Burhan Wani didn't deserve a second chance' ||||
 Jammu and Kashmir Deputy Chief Minister Nirmal Singh on Saturday said a terrorist like Burhan Wani did not deserve a second chance. "A terrorist is a terrorist. A terrorist has to be dealt... the way as has been done," he added. Singh also reiterated that security forces were not aware of the identity of the terrorists engaged in the encounter. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/01e84190-af98-4087-8775-0d9b6333346a-1||||
Jammu, Jul 30 (PTI) A terrorist like Burhan Wani did not deserve a second chance, Jammu and Kashmir Deputy Chief Minister Nirmal Singh today said as he seconded the statement of Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti that security forces were not aware about the identity of the militants engaged in the encounter on July 8.
"A terrorist is a terrorist. There is no good terrorist or bad terrorist. A terrorist has to be dealt like the way as has been done by the security forces," he told reporters here this evening.
"No second chance is given to any terrorist. Any person who holds a gun and is killing the people has to be dealt like this," he added.
When asked to comment on Mehbooba's statement that had the security forces known about the presence of Wani he would have been given a second chance, Singh said that a terrorist does not deserve a second chance.
"I don't see that such a statement has been issued (by the chief minister) I think she was also referring to the situation that emerged afterwards, that suppose the security personal would have known this they would have taken precautionary measures to averted violence which took place after the encounter," he said.
Singh said the security forces had informed the government about the encounter but they had no information who the hiding terrorists were.
"We were told by the security forces but they did not know who was there.
"Suppose they would have known it precautions would have been taken so that there was no situation where people would have gathered to protest," he said.
"I have no information that at any point in time anybody had claimed they knew who the hiding terrorist were.
I am talking about the information the government was having and that is our information. They (security forces) did not know who was hiding there, it was a routine anti-terror operation and ultimately three terrorists were killed in it," Singh .
He said the coalition partners were on the same page on dealing with terrorism in the state.
"That is very clear that is the policy of the government. I have not heard it (CM's statement); government is on the same page as far as dealing with the terrorists are concerned," he said.
Singh said it was a routine anti-terror action and such operations take place daily, even today search operations are going on and they will continue.
