'JeM handler in Pathankot strike fled to Afghan' ||||
 The alleged Jaish-e-Mohammed handler who directed the terrorists in the Pathankot attacks has managed to get across the border to Afghanistan, a member of Pakistan's investigation team probing the attack said on Thursday. The official said he had communicated about 18 times with the terrorists. Officials added that JeM chief Masood Azhar 'disowned' the handler to 'prove his innocence'. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/e49db4bd-4623-45f5-add8-e1560e2e30c2-1||||
From M Zulqernain
Lahore, Jun 16 (PTI) The Jaish-e-Mohammed leader who gave directions over phone to the terrorists during the attack on the Pathankot airbase has reportedly managed to flee to Afghanistan from Pakistan, an official said.
"The alleged JeM handler who communicated by telephone more than two-dozen times with the terrorists in Pathankot before they carried out the attack on the airbase on January 2 has managed to cross into Afghan border," a member of the Joint Investigation Team probing the attack told PTI today.
He said the JeM handler, who is in late 20s, was in the tribal area of Pakistan when he communicated about 18 times with the terrorists.
"The law enforcement agencies tried to trace him (in the tribal belt) but there are reports that he managed to escape to Afghanistan," he said, without disclosing the JeM leader's identity.
Interestingly, during interrogation JeM chief Masood Azhar claimed that the handler of the Pathanokot operation had quit the organisation sometimes ago.
"Azhar disowns the JeM handler (to prove his innocence)," another source privy to the development told PTI.
He said the investigation agencies have been under "immense pressure" from Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to thoroughly probe the matter and come up with "true facts" of the Pathankot incident.
Although the Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) of the Punjab police had registered an FIR against the alleged attackers of the Pathankot airbase and their abettors, not a single person has been charged in this regard.
The FIR was registered in the CTD police station Gujranwala under sections 302, 324 and 109 of the Pakistan Penal Code, and sections 7 and 21-I of the Anti-Terrorism Act.
The FIR says Indian National Security Adviser Ajit Doval informed authorities that the four attackers had come from Pakistan and had "probably crossed the border adjacent to the Pathankot general area".
The NSA says the terrorists made phone calls to cell phones and belonged to a proscribed organisation.
Five terrorists and seven Indian army personnel were killed in a gun battle at the Pathankot airbase.
