Include chapter on Emergency in textbooks: Naqvi ||||
 Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday called for including a chapter on the 1975 Emergency in textbooks, saying the "atrocities" committed during the period needed to be told. "Around 75% of the population is unaware why and how emergency was imposed in the country," he claimed. Naqvi said he would take up the matter with the concerned ministry. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/4cc45d8f-e725-43bd-8e9d-f2b720e873e0-1||||
Lucknow, Jun 26 (PTI) Senior BJP leader and Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today called for inclusion of a chapter on the Emergency in textbooks, as there was a need to tell people about the "atrocities" committed during the period.
"Around 75 per cent of the population is unaware why and how emergency was imposed in the country. Like independence struggle there is a need to tell the people about atrocities committed at that time," Naqvi told reporters here.
He was here to felicitate Loktantra Senanis (fighters for democracy during Emergency) at a function organised by party's city unit on 41st anniversary of its imposition.
Naqvi said he would take up the matter with the concerned ministry.
"They should realise how deep-rooted our democracy is. At that time people showed that they will not tolerate feudal mindset, arrogance and autocracy," he said.
The minister said even after that Congress failed to learn a lesson and break free of the shackles of their "feudal mindset".
"That was the day when foundation of Congress-free India was laid. When we talk about Congress-free India, we mean that we want to rid the country from the feudal mindset, arrogance and autocracy. This is the reason that the Congress is shrinking from political map of the country," he said.
Naqvi said Congress could not digest the progress being made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi government.
"Therefore efforts are made to create hurdles. The first thing which Modi government did after coming to power was to remove power brokers," he said.
He said at time when the PM was discussing the nation's growth with other countries, the 'yuvraj' was visiting a university where alleged "anti-India" slogans were raised-- an apparent reference to Congress Vice-President Rahul Gandhi and JNU.
Taking a dig at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Naqvi said the CM is trying to prove that only he is honest while the rest of the world is corrupt.
"But when he gets exposed, Kejriwal becomes irritated and indulges in drama," he said.
Naqvi claimed BJP would form the next government in Uttar Pradesh with a thumping majority.
"The cycle of SP and BSP regime is over. As per the surveys and reports there is clear inclination of the people towards BJP and they want us in power," he said.
Asked that why BJP failed to make much impact in 2012 Assembly elections, he said situation was different at that time.
