India, Germany play out a 1-1 draw in HWL Finals ||||
 After losing 3-0 against Argentina in the Hockey World League Finals opener on Friday, India held Olympic champions Germany to a 1-1 draw on Saturday. A sixth-minute field goal by Niklas Wellen gave germans the lead before the hosts started putting relentless pressure with their attack. Akashdeep Singh later in the 47th-minute netted one for India and restored parity. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/75440601-0005-0011-0086-000012345678||||
Brushing aside the disappointing show against Argentina in the tournament opener, hosts India produced a much-improved performance as they held Olympic champions Germany to a 1-1 draw in their second Pool B match of the Hockey World League (HWL) Final, in Raipur on Saturday.
Although India were by far the better side on display on Saturday, it was the Germans, who struck first in the sixth minute through a field goal from Niklas Wellen.
The hosts then put relentless pressure on a strong German defence that crumbled in the 47th minute when Akashdeep Singh restored parity.
Unlike Friday’s match against Argentina, the Indians showed more urgency from the word go today and attacked the German defence with much more purpose and intent thereby creating more opportunities than their rivals.
Contrary to Germany’s lead, India were the dominant force in the first half. The hosts enjoyed superior ball possession and also had the much higher number of shots at the goal than their opposition.
India’s first real scoring chance came in the third minute when Chinglensana Singh came close to giving India the lead but his feeble push from inside the circle was easily padded away by the German goalie Andreas Spack.
Two minutes later, Indian skipper Sardar Singh had set it up for Talwinder Singh with a brilliant ball from outside the box but the striker completely messed up the opportunity.
The Germans were bang on target with their first attack and took the lead against the run of play in the next minute, courtesy serious defensive lapse from the Indians.
Mathias Muller went past three Indian players from the right flank to set it up for Wellen, who struck with ease to give Germany the lead.
Indian custodian PR Sreejesh made a double save in the ninth minute, first denying Constantin Staib and then Oliver Korn as Germany led by a goal after the end of the first quarter.
Although trailing, India kept up the pressure and created another scoring opportunity in the 24th minute when Sardar found Akashdeep Singh inside the box but the striker’s reverse hit from top of the bos was saved by German skipper Spack.
India continued to exert pressure on the German defence and in the process earned their first penalty corner two minutes into the third quarter. The resultant flick from Rupinder Pal Singh ricocheted off the post in front of an unmarked Ramandeep Singh, who failed to properly connect on the rebound.
