Pretty cool about posing in my briefs: Varun ||||
 Actor Varun Dhawan has said that he is "pretty cool" about posing in his briefs if the role demands it. "In 'Student of the Year' I was pretty much stripped...Honestly, its been lucky for me," said Varun. He revealed that his trainer warned him that once he shows his body, he will have to do it throughout his career. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/846c5340-c389-4082-add1-0c5708ffe397-1||||
Varun Dhawan doesn't mind taking his clothes off on screen if the role demands it. The actor who famously showed off his abs in his debut film, Student of the Year has been creating ripples for appearing in his briefs in Dishoom.
When asked if there were any inhibitions while posing in his innerwear, Varun told Indian Express.com, "I have been very cool with it. In Student of the Year I was pretty much stripped. So my trainer had then told me, 'Aaj tune body dikahyi hai toh ab tereko poora career body dikhana hoga. So I have been pretty cool with it. Honestly it's been lucky for me."
More recently, a shirtless picture posted on Instagram by Varun went viral for all wrong reasons when fans debated more about his 'apparent bulge' down there rather than his chiselled upper frame. Varun however took the remarks with a pinch of salt and tweeted his own witty repartee.
When asked if it was easy posing with John, Varun said, "Our body types are different. I just needed my abs to be sharp. And with age it becomes more difficult to maintain abs. I was 23 when I first showed them on screen. Today I am 29. So for people those memories are still fresh thanks YouTube and it becomes a chart for comparison. So you have to keep your abs sharp 24/7."
To make sure his body remains in shape, Varun hits the gym regularly. Disclosing his fitness regime, Varun said, "I just make sure to go the gym daily. I am on a very natural diet. One thing which is great is I have been off coffee for sometime now. I drink coconut water and put five strands of kesar in it. That kickstarts your metabolism like anything. I also have a drink called kokulam. It's a natural fat burner. I got it from a farmer. It's like a magic potion. It gives you energy and tastes sweet."
