MP: NSA invoked on BJP member found with beef ||||
 Authorities in Madhya Pradesh have invoked the National Security Act (NSA) against a BJP member who was expelled from the party on Wednesday when beef was allegedly recovered from his house. Anwar Mev, along with nine others accused, was then sent to the jail. Meanwhile, his family has claimed that the recovered meat was of a buffalo calf. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/19435018-0005-0001-9053-000012345678||||
The administration of Dewas district has slapped the National Security Act (NSA) against Anwar Mev alias Anna, an office-bearer of the BJP who was expelled from the party after meat alleged to be beef was found from his house on Wednesday.
After invoking the NSA, police sent Anwar to Ujjain jail. Nine other accused, including his sons, brothers and nephews, have been kept in the local jail. Two more accused are at large.
Meanwhile, Tehsildar Kanhaiyalal Tilwari has asked the municipal and police authorities to remove within three days mutton and chicken shops from the vicinity of temples and schools in Tonk Khurd town, where Anwar lives.
Anwar was vice-president of the district minority cell but the party expelled him after police and right-wing activists seized meat, said to be beef, from his house in Freeganj locality of Tonk Khurd town.
While Anwar and his family members say it was the meat of a buffalo calf, the administration and police have relied on a primary report to declare it cow meat. It will take weeks before the final report from a laboratory in Mathura comes.
District Collector Ashutosh Awasthi claimed Anwar was a habitual offender, and cited a report from the government veterinary hospital to say the meat at his house was cow’s. An advisory board would decide whether the detention under the NSA was justified or not, he said.
Investigating Officer Vijay Sisodia said the process to extern five of those arrested out of the district boundary has also been initiated.
Right-wing activists had earlier submitted a memorandum to the tehsildar objecting to mutton and chicken shops, all owned by Muslims, near temples on the ground that their presence hurt religious feelings.
Tilwari told The Sunday Express that municipal authorities would provide sheds to shopkeepers away from the town. He said the shops would not be closed down, only shifted.
The shopkeepers have opposed the move saying they had been selling mutton and chicken for decades in the town and never faced any problem before. Tilwari, however, justified it saying the presence of shops could become a law and order issue because local residents had voiced their objection and anger.
