'Raman Raghav 2.0' premieres at Cannes ||||
 The Nawazuddin Siddiqui starrer 'Raman Raghav 2.0' was screened at the 69th Cannes Film Festival as part of the 'Directors Fortnight' segment on Monday. The film reportedly received a standing ovation from the audience. Directed by Anurag Kashyap, the film also stars Vicky Kaushal and is based on the serial killer Raman Raghav in Mumbai in the 1960s. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/09bd5bd5-5d15-48b8-a1e7-bb1f8e387ab2-1||||
Actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui was welcomed with cheers and applause post the screening of his film “Raman Raghav 2.0”, which is based on Mumbai’s notorious serial killer Raman Raghav, at the 69th Cannes Film Festival here.
Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap’s “Raman Raghav 2.0”, which narrates story of the serial killer, who went on murder spree in Mumbai in the 1960s, was screened at the film extravaganza on Monday.
It features Nawazuddin as the notorious serial-killer alongside Vicky Kaushal, who plays a police officer.
See Pics: Cannes 2016: Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Vicky Kaushal Receive Standing Ovation For Raman Raghav 2.0
In a clip shared by Nawazuddin’s team with IANS, the actor is seen entering the hall amid an unending cheer.


Before the screening, Kashyap had tweeted: “First screening has begun… House is packed … Hmmmmm”.
“Raman Raghav 2.0” also earned plaudits on the foreign shores, with hollywoodreporter.com stating that “Siddiqui’s demented serial killer ups the scare ante” and variety.com commenting that “the verve and nerve of Kashyap’s filmmaking continues to excite.”
Nawazuddin is a regular at the prestigious film festival.
“Raman Raghav 2.0” marks his eighth film at the film gala in four years. Earlier films to make it to the Cannes were “The Lunchbox”, “Gangs of Wasseypur”, “Miss Lovely” and “Liar’s Dice” to name a few. His seven films as an actor and one short film as a producer have gone to the film festival.
His debut production “Miyan Kal Aana”, that is directed by his brother, Shamas Siddiqui, was also screened at the festival.
The Cannes Film Festival started on Wednesday and will go on till May 22.
Entertainment Videos by Indian Express
