Delhi to get Knowledge Centre in Kalam's honour ||||
 A resolution was passed by the Delhi Legislative Assembly on Friday for setting up a knowledge centre in the capital in memory of late President APJ Abdul Kalam. This memorial will showcase Kalam's life, work and ideals. Earlier, the AAP government had criticised the BJP for allocating Kalams bungalow to Union Minister Mahesh Sharma. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/93866243-0006-0011-9989-000012345678||||
Delhi Assembly Friday passed a resolution for setting up a knowledge centre in the national capital in memory of former president Dr A P J Abdul Kalam.
The move comes amid the AAP government’s criticism of the Centre’s decision to allot Kalam’s official bungalow to Union Tourism and Culture Minister Mahesh Sharma.
The knowledge centre would showcase the life, work and ideals of Kalam, who died on July 27. Delhi tourism minister Kapil Mishra informed the assembly the government had constituted a team to safely procure Kalam’s belongings from Rameswaram. The Union government sent Kalam’s belongings to his family after his bungalow was allotted to Sharma.
Speaker Ram Niwas Goel proposed that till a decision was taken on the site for the knowledge centre, Kalam’s belongings be kept in three rooms on the assembly premises. The House approved the proposal. A resolution was also passed to include Kalam’s portrait in the assembly’s gallery.
Mishra said the decision to bring back Kalam’s belongings was done with his family’s consent. “Citizens started an online petition to bring back his belongings and set up a memorial. His work is of immense national importance. The three-member team would work with the family and the knowledge centre would be set up.”
The Speaker asked the government to include a member of the House in the committee.
During the discussion, the AAP members criticised the BJP for sending Kalam’s belongings to Rameswaram. “He is a symbol of national integration and pride. Students, teachers and people from various quarters respect him for what he achieved. However, instead of showcasing his life and setting up a memorial, his belongings were sent back hastily. The Delhi government should preserve and showcase his work and ideals,” said AAP MLA Somanth Bharti.
Kalam’s grand-nephew APJ MJ Sheik Saleem said the Delhi government’s three-member committee will soon visit Rameswaram to receive the books for the museum. “Out of some 5,000 books, we will be keeping half at Rameswaram itself. After the Centre denied the facilitation of a museum citing security reasons, Delhi culture minister Kapil Mishra contacted us. We have given them a formal request to set up a museum on behalf of Mohammed Muthu Meera Lebbai Maraicker (Kalam’s elder brother),” said Saleem.
