Yami broke my marriage with Pulkit: Shweta ||||
 Actor Pulkit Samrat's estranged wife Shweta Rohira has said that Yami Gautam was responsible for breaking up her marriage with Pulkit. Shweta termed her marriage with Pulkit as a "mistake" while adding, "I don't want to be known as Pulkit Samrat's estranged wife, but Shweta Rohira." Earlier, Pulkit had dismissed reports that he got close to Yami after Shweta's miscarriage. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ccda7410-0062-4af1-a5bc-9f366d046ac7-1||||
Estranged couple Pulkit Samrat and Shweta Rohira's impending divorce is getting murkier by the day. It's been almost a year since Pulkit and Shweta separated. And soon enough the rumours about Pulkit and Yami Gautam's closeness started doing the rounds. In fact, many believed that Pulkit's proximity to Yami was the major reason behind their split, however, the Sanam Re actor has often denied the allegation.
ALSO READ: Pulkit Samrat began dating Yami Gautam after wife Shweta's miscarriage?
ALSO READ: Pulkit began dating Yami after wife Shweta's miscarriage? Yami wasn't in the picture back then, says Samrat
And recently when the shocking details about Shweta's miscarriage were revealed, a lot of dirty linen was washed in the public. There were reports that Pulkit got drawn towards Yami when his wife suffered a miscarriage. But Pulkit has rubbished the reports and said that Yami was nowhere in the picture when this happened.
However, Shweta maintains her stand and says that it was Yami who broke her marriage. In an interview to Mid-Day, Rohira said, " Yami used to stay in the same building as my mother in Andheri. Pulkit and I used to spend a lot of time at my mom's place. She used to come over and play with my dog."
Yami and Pulkit had done a music video almost eight years ago, and it was during the shooting of Sanam Re and Junooniyat that the two started spending more time together. And Shweta holds Yami repsonsible for her broken marriage. "Yes, Yami broke my marriage. I have finally come out of my illusion; so many people cannot lie. Everything was fine between us until one person came in between," she added.
But at the same time, she is thankful to the Badlapur actor for showing her "Pulkit's true colours."
However, Rohira says that she was in for a shock when Puklit announced that he wants to go his own way. "When he dropped a bomb on my birthday (September 23) last year, it was too sudden. He said he wanted to go his way. I told him to come out in the open and acknowledge that we are separating, but he chose not to. I asked him several times what went wrong, but never got an answer. He was always evasive and would say, 'I will talk about it later'," Rohira added.
But she now wants all of it stop and not indulge in mud-slinging any longer. However, she says that she is irked that Pulkit is delaying the divorce process. "I want all of this to stop. I don't want to be known as Pulkit Samrat's estranged wife, but Shweta Rohira. I was happy that our split did not snatch the limelight from his last film, Junooniyat, which released last month. But, he dragged me into this controversy by saying he didn't have time to file a divorce suit. Instead of wasting time talking about being busy, he could have hired a lawyer," she said.  
