Maha: Shrine 'purification' after woman's entry ||||
 Shani Shingnapur shrine in Maharashtra on Sunday reportedly held purification prayers after an 'unidentified woman' broke the tradition prohibiting entry of women. After a guard spotted the woman touching the feet of Shani, news spread to villagers who shut shops until 'doodh abhishek' was done. Two guards have been suspended and anti-superstition activists have criticised the temple trustees. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/79330294-0010-0011-0245-000012345678||||
A DAY after an ‘unidentified’ woman performed puja at the Shani Shingnapur shrine in Ahmednagar in ‘breach’ of long-held tradition prohibiting the entry of women, the temple administration offered prayers for purification of the shrine.
An abhishek was performed for the “purification” of the idol dedicated to the shrine’s ruling deity, Shani, on Sunday.
Villagers kept their businesses closed as a mark of protest against the woman’s actions till the “purification process” was completed.
Around 2.30 pm on Saturday, a busy day at the shrine, a woman climbed up the platform, where the idol is installed, and offered prayers, before disappearing into the crowd despite a security guard confronting her.
“The news spread fast and it angered the villagers a lot. All shops and establishments in village were kept closed as a mark of protest. We held an urgent meeting of the gram sabha on Sunday morning and condemned the actions of the woman. A doodh abhishek was performed later for purification of the shrine and the temple was opened for devotees. Tradition says that a woman touching the shrine is bad omen,” said Sayaram Bankar, a temple trustee.
“The CCTV footage shows an unidentified woman crossing the barricade. We will not make any efforts to identify the woman, as it will complicate the matter further. But we have suspended some guards,” he added.
The shrine — Shani Devsthan — is a five-feet tall black rock installed on a platform without a roof. Donations to the temple’s trust every year run into crores of rupees. Also, houses in Shani Shingnapur have no doors or locks as locals believe that Lord Shani himself guards their houses.
The Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti, an organisation founded by slain anti-superstition activist Dr Narendra Dabholkar has been campaigning against the superstitious beliefs in the area.
“We have been fighting against these two superstitions. First, that women touching the shrine brings bad luck and second, that there cannot be any thefts,”said Avinash Patil, the executive president of the organisation.
“We must understand that keeping these superstitious beliefs and continuing this discrimination is in the interest of the trust considering the money that flows in from the devotees. The steps taken by trustees are nothing but steps to secure these financial interests,” he added.
Congress MLA from Solapur Praniti Shinde said: “The woman should be felicitated for doing what she did.”
(With inputs from PTI)
