MoU signed for 'paradigm shift' in handloom sector ||||
 The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) and the Ministry of Textiles on Sunday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in a bid to "bring a paradigm shift in the handloom industry". The move aims to promote production and marketing of high-value quality handloom products and enhance earnings of handloom weavers, a release read. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/9e1f0363-de8b-430a-a2c8-3f8d3852044f-1||||
Varanasi, Aug 7 (PTI) The government has embarked on linking its skill development initiative with its programme to develop handloom industry.
An MoU in this regard was signed between the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) and the Ministry of Textiles here on National Handloom Day to "bring a paradigm shift in the handloom industry".
"Spinning, dyeing, 'beem bharai', designing, weaving - all these are traditional skills which are there from decades but have never been realised formally. We must revive interest in these skills and make them viable, paying and valued.
"This will bring about entrepreneurial and managerial capability and skills of IT and financial planning which will change the way how young loom craftsperson organise their traditional skills into aspiring businesses," Rajiv Pratap Rudy, Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, said.
An official release said MSDE and the Ministry of Textiles have chalked out a new strategy for promoting production and marketing of high value quality handloom products with the key objective of enhancing the earnings of handloom weavers.
"Our conversation about skills have always been focused on learning the art of working with our hands. Who would know and value this more than our own weavers and loom craftsmen who have retained the culture and tradition of our country with their works," Rudy said.
The MoU was signed in the presence of Union Minister for Textiles Smriti Irani, who is steering the vision of scaling the handloom and textile sector to new heights, the release said.
At present, 28 Weavers Service Centres (WSCs) across the country are providing technical assistance to handloom weavers, it said.
WSCs are the nodal agency for carrying out skill up-gradation training in the areas of weaving, designing, dyeing/printing, managerial functions and use of technology in handiworks.
