Massive fire at bio-diesel factory near Vizag ||||
 According to officials, a massive fire broke out late on Tuesday at a bio-diesel factory in the Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ). Visakhapatnam District Collector N Yuvaraj said around 40 firefighting engines are trying to put out the fire that is still raging. Twelve of the 18 storage tanks have caught fire but there are no casualties, he added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3aa75588-3103-4655-92db-20de7423ad1a-1||||
A major fire that broke out at a bio-diesel manufacturing unit in Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ) here last evening is still raging even as hectic efforts are on to control it, officials said on Wednesday
Visakhapatnam District Collector N Yuvaraj, who was at the accident site, told PTI that nearly 41 fire fighting engines from Navy, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, and Port Trust were making all efforts to put out the fire, that erupted at the Bioxmax Fuels Ltd company premises in Duvvada area here at around 7.30 PM on Tuesday.
No casualties were reported in the incident so far, he said, adding that the blaze occurred in the storage area and no worker was present in close proximity of the mishap site.
#WATCH: Fire continues to rage at Biomax Fuels in Visakhapatnam, 41 fire tenders still battling to douse the flameshttp://t.co/YdhrJp65cJ
— ANI (@ANI_news) April 27, 2016
Biomax Fuels Ltd has a manufacturing capacity of five lakh tonnes of bio-diesel from multi-feedstock at VSEZ.
The Collector said out of 18 storage tanks located at the site, 12 caught fire. It is expected to be brought under control by this evening as the entire oil in the tanks has to burn completely, he said.
The authorities are taking steps to avoid the fire from spreading to six other tanks which are there in the same area, he said.
District Fire Officer J M Rao said they were yet to ascertain the cause of the massive blaze.
As the flames spread rapidly from one tank to another within minutes, the fire tenders were unable to reach the storage area, he said.
Meanwhile, the Eastern Naval Command in a statement said that nine fire tenders of Indian Navy were deployed at the Biomax company to douse the flames.
“On getting news from the state administration, the Eastern Naval Command launched two aircraft for aerial reconnaissance and assessment of the extent of fire. Navy’s Quick Reaction Team (QRT) and an ambulance with medical team were rushed to the site of the fire accident along with the fire tenders,” it said.
Standby arrangements have been made at the Naval hospital, INHS Kalyani, for providing assistance in case of medical emergency, it said.
Fire tenders are being replenished and turned around. Additional fire tenders are kept on standby for deployment, the release added.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
