Hardik Patel leaves Gujarat for a 6-month exile ||||
 Patidar leader Hardik Patel on Sunday left for Udaipur in Rajasthan in accordance with the Gujarat High Court's bail condition to stay out of the state for six months. He would be staying in a house owned by former Congress MLA and local Patel leader Pushkar Lal Dangi. Hardik was granted bail on Friday after almost nine months of imprisonment. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/8ef452cf-b6cb-4129-b40e-5e7c81a9a9a9-1||||
Ahmedabad, Jul 17 (PTI) Patel quota stir leader Hardik Patel, who walked out of jail on Friday, left for Udaipur in Rajasthan early this morning, in accordance with the Gujarat High Court's condition while granting him bail that he will have to stay out of the state for next six months.
The 22-year-old leader will stay at a house owned by former Congress MLA and local Patel leader Pushkarlal Patel in Udaipur for the period.
According to Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) leader and Hardik's close aide Dinesh Bambhaniya, the Patel quota agitation spearhead started his journey for Udaipur from his native place Viramgam here at around 7:30 AM today.
"Hardik will reach Udaipur in the afternoon. He was greeted by his supporters on Gujarat border. Though Hardik was supposed to go to different parts of north Gujarat before leaving the state today, he has cut short his trip due to time constraints and directly left for Udaipur," said Bambhaniya.
The HC had earlier paved the way for Hardik's release after granting him bail in two cases of sedition and a case related to violence at Visnagar MLA's office.
As per the HC direction, Hardik had to leave Gujarat within 48 hours of his release from jail.
Since the 48-hour time limit was ending at 11 AM today, Hardik left for Udaipur early today.
In an undertaking submitted before the sessions courts of Surat and Ahmedabad, Hardik's lawyers had informed that the leader will stay at house no 190, Shrinath Nagar on Airport road in Udaipur, Rajasthan.
The owner of the house is Pushkarlal Patel, a former Congress MLA and local Patel leader.
