Parties make false claims in manifestos: JD(U) ||||
 JD(U) leader KC Tyagi on Thursday said that comparing an election manifesto with a religious text was not right as political parties make a lot of false claims in manifestos. This comes after AAP leader Ashish Khetan compared the party manifesto for the 2017 Punjab polls with the Guru Granth Sahib. Khetan, booked for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, later apologised. ||||
 ANI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/fb5a0131-f383-43f7-88d2-523433b72117-1||||
New Delhi, July 7 (ANI): The Janata Dal (United) on Thursday said comparing election manifesto with a religious text was not right as political parties make lots of false claims in manifestos.
JD (U) leader K.C. Tyagi was commenting on the controversy arising out of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Ashish Khetan comparing the party's manifesto for the upcoming elections with Guru Granth Sahib, the religious scripture of the Sikhs.
"Party's manifesto should not be compared with a religious text. We write a lot of false things in manifestos, which is not true of religious text. In democracy, once he has apologised and taken back his words, the issue should be closed," Tyagi told ANI.
Khetan, who has been booked for hurting religious sentiments, earlier on Wednesday came out with a strong apology to douse the raging issue and salvage the party's reputation ahead of the state assembly polls.
Speaking exclusively to ANI, Khetan went to the extent of saying that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-led Government in Punjab can mete out any punishment to him, including 'crucifixion', if not satisfied with his apology.
This is the second instance of police action against the AAP functionaries in recent times in Punjab.
AAP legislator Naresh Yadav has been questioned on June 24 in regard to Quran sacrilege in Malerkotla in Sangrur district.
Tensions flared in the holy Islamic month of Ramzan as news spread that torn pages Quran were found in a drain in front of the cemetery.
The main accused, Vijay Kumar had claimed he did it at the behest of the AAP's Delhi MLA Yadav.
Yadav alleged that a 'restless' SAD-BJP alliance in Punjab was hatching conspiracies. (ANI)
