Reports on Priyanka prove Rahul has failed: NCP ||||
 After Congress rubbished recent reports about Priyanka Gandhi Vadra leading poll campaign in Uttar Pradesh, the NCP on Wednesday said this episode makes it clear that Vice President Rahul Gandhi has failed. NCP leader Majeed Memon asserted that the chances of Congress winning in UP are "remote" and that the party is not even clear about its Chief Ministerial candidate. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/5b3cc990-2531-4755-9126-6295bde1d2ce-1||||
With the Congress Party rubbishing media reports on the possibility of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra leading the poll campaign in Uttar Pradesh, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Wednesday said the entire episode has made one thing clear that ‘Rahul Gandhi has failed’.
Speaking to ANI, NCP leader Majid Memon said chances of Congress winning in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls are remote, adding that the grand old party is not even clear about its chief ministerial candidate.
“Congress does not want to reveal anything on this and they are keeping their fist clenched. One thing is clear, Rahul Gandhi has failed and does not have capability to win elections. Whether they want to bring Priyanka in his (Rahul’s) place is yet to be clear,” Memon told ANI.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
“The chances of Congress in UP are remote. Now they are projecting Sheila Dikshit and Ghulam Nabi Azad. But, we have seen what happened in Delhi with Sheila Dikshit,” he added.
Congress general secretary and party in charge of the Uttar Pradesh Affairs Ghulam Nabi Azad on Tuesday slammed media reports on the possibility of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra leading the poll campaign in the state, where assembly elections are due in early 2017.
“I don’t understand who gives such news to television and newspapers. No discussion has taken place in this regard. Reports of her becoming the chief of the Uttar Pradesh Poll Campaign Committee are wrong. If she campaigns during the election, it’s different thing but news of her becoming the chairman of the campaign committee is entirely wrong,” Azad told ANI.
When asked about the change of guard in the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) after Eid, the leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha said he could not say as of now when the appointment would be made. “When there is an election, there are some changes, but whether the UPCC president will be changed, I cannot say this,” he added.
Reports in a section of media had earlier claimed that Priyanka Gandhi will lead the Congress’ election campaign in the U.P. election, while Dikshit is likely to be projected as the Chief Ministerial candidate.
