Shraddha rejects reports of rift with Alia ||||
 Rubbishing rumours of a rift with Alia Bhatt, Shraddha Kapoor has reportedly said that she would be happy if Alia Bhatt becomes a part of 'Aashiqui 3'. She clarified that she bears no ill feeling for not being cast in the third instalment of the franchise, the report added. Earlier, reports claimed that Alia has replaced Shraddha in 'Aashiqui 3'. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/9243be88-1be7-44d0-8d82-2ee8a018be4e-1||||
Shraddha Kapoor and Alia Bhatt were recently in news for their alleged cat fight. Buzz had it that things were not good between the two B-Town divas. Reason - stiff competition and Sidharth Malhotra. In fact, the rumours became strong after Alia replaced Shraddha in Aashiqui 3, which also stars Sidharth.
ALSO READ: Rumoured lovebirds Alia Bhatt and Sidharth Malhotra to star in Aashiqui 3
ALSO READ: Alia Bhatt and Shraddha Kapoor fighting over Sidharth Malhotra?
But it seems there is no bad blood between the two as Shraddha has recently expressed her happiness over Alia being a part of Aashiqui 3. According to a report in Times of India, the Baaghi actor affirms that she would be happy if Alia becomes a part of Aashiqui 3. In fact, she clarified that there is no ill feeling for not being a part of the third instalment of the hit franchise since Aashiqui 3 would be a new story.
In fact, the 27-year-old actor said that she would look forward to watching the film.
Be it 1990 or 2013, Aashiqui has always been a hit with the audience. If in the 90s, Aashiqui made Rahul Roy an overnight sensation, the same magic worked for Shraddha in 2013. After two duds in a row, Aashiqui 2 gave Shraddha's career a fresh lease of life. And since then there has been no looking back for this actor. But the actor is unfazed that she isn't a part of Aashiqui 3. 
In April this year, the news of the third instalment of Aashiqui came out. In an interview to Mumbai Mirror, Mahesh Bhatt confirmed that he would produce Aashiqui 3 and he has decided to rope in Alia and Sidharth for the film. The film is currently in its scripting stage and is said to go on floors next year.
 
