Ghazal maestro Mubarak Begum passes away at 80 ||||
 Ghazal maestro and playback singer Mubarak Begum Shaikh passed away at the age of 80 on Monday after prolonged illness. She was known for songs including 'Woh Na Aayenge Palat Kar' from the 1955 film 'Devdas' and 'Kabhi Tanhaiyon Mein' from the 1961 film 'Hamari Yaad Aayegi'. She sang for over 110 films in her career of over four decades. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/55473823-9804-4e75-bd26-5d7246e41963-1||||
Legendary Bollywood playback singer and ghazal maestro Mubarak Begum Shaikh, best known for Kabhi Tanhaiyon Mein (Hamari Yaad Ayegi, 1961) and Wo Na Ayegi Palat Ke (Devdas, 1955) passed away on late Monday night at her residence after prolonged illness, said a family member.
Known as simply 'Mubarak Begum', the Rajasthan-born singer was a widow and was 80 years old at the time of her death. She is survived by her son Hussain, daughter-in-law Zarina and granddaughter Sana with whom she was living for many years.
"She breathed her last around 10 p.m. on Monday night at her Jogeshwari home. She had been ailing and hospitalised frequently since over a year with various health problems," said her daughter-in-law Zarina Shaikh on Tuesday.
Her funeral will take place on Tuesday around 11 am at the Oshiwara Muslim Kabrastan, Zarina added.
Mubarak Begum was born in Sujangarh. She was proficient in both Hindu and Urdu and began her career with the All India Radio (AIR), singing programmes and light musical recitals. She moved to Mumbai 70 years ago and sang her first playback song for the film Aaiye for which the music was composed by late music director Naushad. Thereafter, she went on to sing for over 110 films for over four decades till the early 1980s.
 
Besides being a playback singer, she also performed regularly on stage and in musical concerts. Some of her most memorable numbers are Mujhko Apne Gala Laga Lo (Hamrahi, 1963), Neend Udd Jaye Teri (Juaari, 1968), and Wada Humse Kiya, Dil Kisiko Diya" (Saraswatichandra, 1968).
However, she ran into financial difficulties over the years and her family had to ask around for monetary help to pay her medical bills. A few prominent personalities, including Bharat Ratna Lata Mangeshkar and Bollywood superstar Salman Khan helped Mubarak Begum during desperate times. Recently, Education Minister Vinod Tawde sanctioned her hospitalisation expenses.
