J&K govt launches e-file tracking system ||||
 Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday launched an e-file tracking system to automate file, correspondence and document tracking within government offices. Mufti said, "It...would go a long way in addressing the concerns regarding inordinate delay in disposal of matters of public importance." She asked officers to use the system, implemented at zero cost, to eliminate red-tape. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/55f53984-3f8b-4aaa-8aa4-70e0805753c3-1||||
Srinagar, Jun 29 (PTI) In a major e-Governance initiative, Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti today launched the new workflow based e-file tracking system in the Civil Secretariat - the seat of the government - here.
The new IT-enabled file-tracking system implemented by Jammu and Kashmir e-Governance Agency (JKeGA) is aimed at automating file, correspondence and document tracking within government offices.
"It is a major good governance initiative and would go a long way in addressing the concerns regarding inordinate delay in disposal of matters of public importance," Chief Minister said.
Mehbooba asked the officers to make best use of the new IT-enabled system of file tracking to eliminate red-tape and wrong-doings at various levels.
Chief Executive Officer, JKeGA and OSD to Chief Minister, Saadut Hussain informed the CM that the system is designed to be the central repository and tracking mechanism for all government files and correspondences.
"It will facilitate a consistent watch over the movement of various important files and documents in the government offices," he said adding the system has been implemented at zero cost and parameters set to meet the state government's requirements.
Hussain said the objective of the initiative is to improve efficiency, consistency and effectiveness of the government processes, to reduce turnaround time and to meet the demands of the citizens charter, to provide effective resource management, to improve the quality of administration, to reduce processing delays, to establish transparency and accountability and to provide cost-effective e-storage facility.
Enumerating the salient features of the system, the CEO said it provides an interactive interface to retrieve the information by a flexible way.
It maintains all the information related to creation, receipt, dispatch, tracking of files or documents and eliminates the repeated entry of information, he said, adding the system has a highly powerful file or document searching capability.
