Youngsters don't consider sex taboo topic: Singh ||||
 Actor Ranveer Singh has said that youngsters no longer look upon sex as a "taboo subject". "Whats most important is for the Indian youth to understand as much as they can about safe sex and sex education," said Ranveer. He made these comments while attending a screening of 'Sex Chat with Pappu & Papa', a sex education based web series. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1a5fd836-e74e-421c-9674-d692e6fafe22-1||||
Actor Ranveer Singh, who has earlier endorsed a condom brand, says sex as a topic is not considered taboo by the youth any more even though it is considered “dirty” and “a stigma” by the larger population in the country.
“Sex in our country is a subject of stigma. For the longest time, sex in India has always been spoken and thought of as a dirty thing, a sleazy subject and always kept in the closet,” Ranveer said at a screening of the online series based on sex education “Sex Chat with Pappu & Papa”.
The series has been brought out by Y-Films, a branch of Yash Raj Films.
Ranveer had made news when he endorsed a condom brand a few years ago and had also featured in some steamy ads.
“It was my own small way of shedding light on the changing perception about sex. Youngsters don’t look upon it as a taboo subject anymore, they don’t think about it as a dirty thing.
“I wanted to try and bring sex out of the closet and make people understand that it is a beautiful thing… An expression of love. What’s most important is for the Indian youth to understand as much as they can about safe sex and sex education.
“There are still so many institutions that don’t have it mandatory, which I think should be made mandatory,” the “Bajirao Mastani” actor added.
About his expectations from “Sex Chat with Pappu & Papa”, he said: “I hope it sends out a strong message to parents and to youngsters, adolescents and to anybody who watches to change their perspective on this subject of sex.
“Of course, we have our culture and we live in a society which is traditionally very conservative, but times are changing. With the advent of the internet, things have opened up.
“Kids today have access to all kinds of information. If somehow or the other, this film manages to reiterate the importance of proper sex education for youngsters, I think that would be fantastic,” he said.
Ranveer will next be seen on the big screen in Aditya Chopra’s “Befikre”.
