95% population under Aadhaar in Haryana: CM ||||
 Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said that 95% of the states population has been enrolled under Aadhaar so far. As per Census 2011, Haryanas total population is over 2.53 crore. Khattar added that the Public Distribution System (PDS) will be online from November 1, allowing consumers to get their ration through fingerprints on biometric machines. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0d615f9b-70a9-4db8-961e-2282f6835dc6-1||||
Karnal, Jul 10 (PTI) Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said 95 per cent of the population has been enrolled under Aadhaar in the state so far.
"People are getting full benefits of the government schemes on the basis of Aadhaar card," Khattar said while addressing a public meeting here today.
As per 2011 Census, Haryana's total population was over 2.53 crore.
He said that Public Distribution System (PDS) would be online from November 1 this year and consumers would get their ration by way of fingerprints on biometric machines.
Referring to the 'Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao' campaign, he said the sex ratio in the state has increased to 900 from 837 due to the sincere efforts by the government with people's support.
"The day is not far when we achieve our target of 950," he added.
He said eight districts would be made 'Open Defecation Free' (ODF) in the state in the first phase and Karnal is also among them.
He said that 83 per cent toilets have already been constructed in these districts. This is a social drive and ODF would be achieved with the support of all people.
Translating Prime Minister's vision to provide housing for all by 2022, he said, the Haryana Government plans to provide houses to about two lakh people.
Referring to 'Swachhta Abhiyaan', he said competitions are being organised so as to ensure cleanliness in the entire state.
Khattar said Karnal will soon have an ultra-modern bus-stand which will be constructed at a cost of Rs 300 crore. It will be fully operational within two-and-a-half years.
Its six bays in the first phase will be dedicated to the people within one year. The other phases would be completed in scheduled time, said Khattar, who laid the foundation stone of the new bus-stand to be set up on 32 acres of land.
"The offices at the bus-stand would have modern facilities like ticket vending machine, digital time table, digital information and modern safety equipment. These facilities would be rolled within two to two-and-a-half years," he said.
The Chief Minister also said that the process of linking all villages with broadband facility has already been started and provided in 2,500 villages.
Meanwhile, Khattar today inaugurated a newly constructed 'Nandi Gram' in Phoosgarh village of the district for cow conservation.
