Traffic cops arrested for sexually abusing man ||||
 Three traffic policemen have been arrested for allegedly sexually abusing and assaulting a property dealer in Sabzi Mandi, north Delhi on Saturday night. The incident took place after the victim violated traffic rules and entered into an argument with the traffic police. He was reportedly taken to the traffic police office, sexually assaulted and beaten up. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/54339271-0012-0004-1112-000012345678||||
Three traffic policemen have been arrested for allegedly sexually abusing and assaulting a property dealer in north Delhi’s Sabzi Mandi on Saturday night.
The three traffic policemen have been identified as Assistant Sub-inspector Balwan Singh and constables Raju Kumar and Bharat. “The two constables have been sent to judicial custody while Balwan was released on bail,” said a police officer.
The incident took place Saturday night, after the victim allegedly violated traffic rules in Phulbangash area and was caught by the three policemen, said sources.
“The victim got into an argument with the traffic police, during which he broke their challan machine. The angry policemen started beating him up. They later took him to the traffic police office, which is next to the Sabzi Mandi police station,” the officer added.
The man was sexually assaulted and beaten up by the three policemen inside the office, said sources.
“The matter came to light after the victim’s family members found him in the traffic police office,” they added. A case has been registered on the basis of the complaint of the victim, who also underwent a medical check-up, said Deputy Commissioner of Police, North, Madhur Verma.
A case has been registered at Sabzi Mandi police station under sections 377 (unnatural sex), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 343 (wrongful confinement for three or more days), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 365 (abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), and 511 (attempt to murder).
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
