Centre orders probe into funding of Naik's trust ||||
 The Centre has ordered a probe into the funding of Islamic cleric Zakir Naik's Islamic Research Foundation (IRF), a Home Ministry official said. This comes after allegations that funds received by the trust from abroad were being spent on political activities and attracting youths towards terror. Earlier, Home Minister Rajnath Singh said Naik's speeches were also being "examined". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/e7678942-2289-4d74-9c41-ae945c73279a-1||||
The Centre has ordered a probe into the funding of Islamic preacher Zakir Naik’s NGO, Islamic Research Foundation (IRF), after his speeches came under scanner for inspiring the Dhaka attack in which Bangladeshi militants killed 22 people, mostly foreigners.
The Union Home Ministry is probing allegations that funds received by the NGO from abroad have been spent on political activities and “attracting” youths towards terror. All such activities are contrary to the provisions of the FCRA, under which the NGO is registered, and any violation invites punitive action.
The Home Ministry probe follows the Maharashtra government’s decision to investigate the speeches of the Muslim televangelist.
Kashmiri separatists back televangelist Zakir Naik, criticise govt
“We have taken cognizance of Zakir Naik’s speeches and have given necessary instructions for an investigation. The CDs of his speeches are being examined… As far as the government is concerned, we will not compromise on terrorism at any cost. Whatever is justified will be done,” said Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh.
An online petition has been filed with the Home Ministry listing all the allegations against the IRF as well as its chief Zakir Naik.
Officials said according to an intelligence report, the content of “Peace TV”, the channel on which Naik regularly appears and gives sermons, is “not conducive” to the security environment in the country and poses “security hazard”.
To mute Peace TV, govt to get lesson from abroad
Naik, however, in a statement had said that he “totally disagreed” that he inspired the killing of innocent people in Dhaka. “There is not a single speech of mine where I have encouraged people to kill one another, whether Muslim or non-Muslim,” he said.
