Leonardo was to star in first 'Baywatch': Report ||||
 Actor Leonardo DiCaprio was supposed to star in the original Baywatch television series as the show's protagonist Mitch Buchannon's son, according to reports. David Hasselhoff, who played Buchannon on screen, reportedly did not want the then 15-year-old DiCaprio to be cast as his son because he thought portraying the father of a child that age would make him look old. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2704dac2-ca7e-4451-b86a-9b9b71d6b27f-1||||
Oscar-winning actor and global superstar Leonardo DiCaprio was set to be part of the cast of the Baywatch TV series.
According in a report in hollywoodreporter.com, the hit television series starring sex symbol Pamela Anderson was almost ready to have DiCaprio as part of the cast, according to producers of the show, Michael Berk and Douglas Schwartz.
ALSO READ: Priyanka Chopra reveals the reason she signed Baywatch - her first Hollywood film
ALSO READ: Leonardo DiCaprio is NOT playing Rumi in the biopic
"We actually had DiCaprio ready to be cast," Berk said.
The role that was given to DiCaprio was protagonist Mitch Buchannon's son. Mitch Buchannon was played by David Hasselhoff. While Hasselhoff's perfomance made the Mitch character an iconic figure, he will not be reprising the role in the 2017 Baywatch film. Superstar Dwayne Johnson will be playing the role.
The 2017 film adaptation of Baywatch is being directed by Seth Gordon (director of 2011's hit comedy Horrible Bosses) and will star Priyanka Chopra, Zac Efron (High School Musical) and Alexandra Daddario (True Detective). Priyanka Chopra's character Victoria Leeds is reportedly the antagonist in the film.
DiCaprio was 15 years old when he auditioned for the role in Baywatch, but it was Hasselhoff who did not want him to be cast because DiCaprio's casting would apparently make him look old.
"David thought he was too old to play his son. David thought it would make him look older. He had a lot of concerns of that type," Schwartz said.
The part finally went to Brandon Call for season one, after which he was replaced by Jeremy Jackson who played the character for eight seasons.
Leonardo DiCaprio was recently in the news when of reports of him playing the 13th-century Persian poet Rumi in a biopic surfaced on the internet. Immediately there was a strong outcry against the film's makers with several people complaining that the role was being "whitewashed".
However, a source close to the actor soon clarified that the Wolf of Wall Street actor will not pursue the project.
Baywatch - the film is slated to release on May 19, next year in the United States.
