'Arhar Modi, Arhar Modi', chants Rahul Gandhi ||||
 Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi on Thursday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the rising prices of food products, including pulses like Arhar, and said, There is a new slogan in villages: 'Arhar Modi, Arhar Modi, Arhar Modi'." Gandhi made the statement on lines of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party's slogan of 'Har Har Modi, Ghar Ghar Modi'. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/6fc19894-f568-41b6-8705-30d3208b8d44-1||||
Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday attacked the Modi government over the rising prices of food product in Lok Sabha saying “the PM talks about everything but price rise”. Rahul said the NDA government had a grand celebration on its second anniversary but they forgot that none of their promises have been fulfilled in last two years.
“Modi government celebrated its second happy birthday a few days back. While addressing the people, he spoke about Make In India, Connect India, Digital India, but he does not talk about price rise. Not once did he talk about pulses, potatoes and tomatoes,” said Gandhi in the Lok Sabha.
Gandhi said that price rise is the most important issue before people and false promises cannot be made on it. “You can make false claims on Startup India, Make in India, but not on rising prices,” he added.
Taking a dig at the prime minister over ‘false promises, Rahul said, “I want to remind PM Modi about the promise he made to everyone, and now has forgotten. You can make false claims on startup India, make in India but not on rising prices.”
The Congress leader asked the prime minister to give a date when the price of Dal will come down. “You can make empty promises to people. But today you must give a date to this house when the price of Dal will come down.”
He also said that two years ago Modi urged the nation not to make him the PM but a chowkidar (guard) of the nation. “Today under the nose of that chowkidar, Dal is being stolen,” said Rahul.
He ended his speech by saying people today across the country are raising just one slogan “Arhar Modi Arhar Modi.”
