Only I can play myself onscreen: Lalu to Irrfan ||||
 Rashtriya Janata Dal President Lalu Prasad Yadav, while being interviewed by actor Irrfan Khan said that he is a hero who would portray himself onscreen in any film made on him. Lalu added, "Who will copy me? Instead you should ask who will be heroine opposite me?" Irrfan met Lalu for promoting 'Madaari', scheduled to release on July 22. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c4a0eab9-1659-4599-b7bc-b22f91cdc86e-1||||
Two characters most proficient in their own field, RJD chief Lalu Prasad and internationally acclaimed actor Irrfan Khan today met in Patna. The RJD supremo himself acted in a film, which was named after him, Padmashri Lalu Prasad Yadav released in 2004.
Irrfan Khan was in Patna for the promotion of his upcoming film 'Madaari' slated to be released on July 22.
NO QUESTION ON TOLERANCE OR INTOLERANCE
Irrfan had come to meet Lalu on a day when the country is celebrating Eid. " I am questioning Lalu about the system from a common man point of view. I will question him about politics also. But there will be no interview on tolerance or intolerance", said Irrfan Khan.
Irrfan who came to Patna for the first time said that people of Bihar were extremely hard working. On being questioned as to why Irrfan chose to meet Lalu Prasad and what was special about him, Irrfan has his own reasoning.
" We chose Lalu Yadav as he gave us time immediately. Lalu is the politician who has brought humour in Parliament, this is his USP", said Irrfan.
The RJD chief said that he was fearing meeting Irrfan Khan as he thought that he might be some fake person. But after his deputy CM son Tejaswi Yadav convinced him, he readily accepted the offer to meet him.
"Irrfan does good acting. Earlier I thought he was a false person but after verification I found out that the person who wanted to meet me is genuine", said Lalu.
"He will question me and I will provide him information. Politicians despite wanting cannot become actors but we feed filmmakers with stories", said Lalu.
QUESTION-ANSWER SESSION
There was a small question answer session also between Lalu and Irrfan when the latter asked him about a film being made on him, whom would Lalu prefer to play his character and as usual, witty Lalu was at his best and his reply invited a thunderous laugh from the audience.
"I am myself a hero. Who will copy me? Instead you should ask who will be heroine opposite me ?" said Lalu.
After the meeting got over, the actor spoke exclusively to India Today on his experience meeting country's most colourful politician.
" I have met Lalu for the first time. We requested him to provide us time and he readily agreed. It was a nice experience. We asked political questions also and questions from aam aadmi point of view," said Irrfan.
