Jharkhand govt claims investment of 62,000 cr ||||
 The Jharkhand government on Wednesday claimed to have attracted investments of 62,000 crore during the Jharkhand Investors Meet in Mumbai. State CM Raghubar Das signed an MoU worth around 50,000 crore with the Adani Group for setting up a power plant and fertiliser unit. He also inked an MoU of 2,000 crore with the Vedanta Group for a steel plant. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/66187736-0003-0002-1875-000012345678||||
The Jharkhand government on Wednesday claimed to have attracted investment worth Rs 62,000 crore at the Jharkhand Investors Meet held in Mumbai.
Jharkhand Chief Minister Raghubar Das on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) worth around Rs 50,000 crores with the Adani Group for setting up a power plant and fertiliser units in Godda and Sahibganj districts. The CM also signed a MoU worth Rs 2,000 crores with Vedanta Group for a steel plant. Besides, letter of Intents (LoI) to the tune of Rs 10,000 was received from various companies.
Das signed these MoUs at the Jharkhand Investor Meet held in Mumbai, as part of the Make in India festival.
According to official information received here, the Adani Group will set up a power plant worth around Rs 15,000 and having a capacity of 1,600 Mega Watt. The plant would cater to Bangladesh with whom the Adani Group has already signed a contract. Further, a coal-based methane gas fertiliser unit worth around Rs 35,000 crore would be set up by Adani Group. These plants are likely to come up in Godda and Sahibganj districts of the state.
Further, Das also met Tata Group Chairman Cyrus Mistry, who promised upping the steel production in Jamshedpur by one million tonne (MT) – from 10 MT to 11 MT.
The CM also met cine-stars Amitabh Bachchan, Akshay Kumar, Anupam Kher and others and invited them for shooting films in the state.
Das show-cased the enormous possibilities in Jharkhand in terms of availability of minerals during the meet with investors. He held one-to-one meetings with more than 25 investors from various sectors, including IT and clothes, and construction.
Das also told investors that Jharkhand had improved a lot in terms of ease of doing business, as various norms have been streamlined and inspector-raj has been finished.
Meanwhile, the Opposition in the Jharkhand Assembly criticised Das’ move as mere publicity. Leader of Opposition Hemant Soren, while participating in the discussion on motion of thanks on Governor’s address said: “The government is meeting the same old people, who are already there in the state. We already have Tata; we have already have companies like Jindal.” He said such announcements were made earlier also.
