Kerala solar scam accused shares 3 CDs as proof ||||
 Saritha Nair, the prime accused in Kerala's solar scam on Monday presented 3 CDs containing alleged conversations as evidence against individuals from CM Oommen Chandy's office to the judicial probe commission. Saritha claimed that Chandy's loyalists had approached her to "settle" the matter, adding that she was exploited by multiple politicians while she met them to promote her solar project. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/88064252-0004-0002-9394-000012345678||||
Solar scam accused Saritha S Nair on Monday handed over three CDs to the judicial commission probing the case as “evidence” to substantiate her allegation that loyalists of Chief Minister Oommen Chandy had approached her to “settle”
the matter.
Nair also claimed she had made rape allegations against Congress legislator A P Abdullakutty at the behest of his own party leader Thampanoor Ravi, and that it was meant to divert public attention from the case.
She also told the commission that she was sexually exploited by many politicians, whom she approached in connection with her venture. Nair and her live-in partner Biju Radhakrishnan together floated the firm Team Solar Renewable Energy Solutions Private Limited in 2011, and were arrested in 2013 for allegedly duping investors from whom they collected crores for a solar power project.
She alleged that the CDs she handed over to the commission on Monday contain audio of purported conversations she had with Congress leaders Benny Behanan and Thampanoor Ravi, and Chandy’s security guard Salim Raj, who was sacked in connection with the scam. Behanan, a legislator, and Ravi, the Congress state general secretary, are known to be Chandy loyalists.
One of the CDs, she said, contained a purported conversation between her and businessman Abraham Kalamannil, who asked her to destroy all evidence in the case. Nair alleged that Kalamannil approached her personal aide Vinu Kumar after she deposed before the commission last week and asked him to ensure Nair does not make any damaging revelations.
She claimed the purported conversations proved that attempts were being made to ensure she does not say anything against the CM during her deposition.
Last week, television channels in Kerala had aired a purported conversation wherein Ravi was tutoring Nair to ensure her deposition was in line with what Chandy had said before the commission.
Nair claimed Ravi wanted her to give a statement against Abdullakutty in the rape case under section 164 of the CrPC in a magistrate court, which she did. She also claimed Ravi had advised her against deposing before the investigating officer in the same case.
Later in the day, she released copies of the CDs to the media.
One of the CDs has a purported conversation between Nair and Behanan:
Nair: Sir, you say whether I should go ahead with the case against Abdullakutty or cancel it.
Behanan: Please cancel it, don’t betray.
Nair: He (Abdullakutty) says he has done nothing. VS supports him. Why should I alone get humiliated? Everyone is concerned about their life. I too want to live.
Behanan: I will talk.
Nair: I want to know by evening. I have to give a statement before the police. I have to prepare for it.
Another purported conversation has Behanan asking her to take a “helpful stand”:
Nair: Helpful stand means? I have to face 48 cases alone.
Behanan: We are all here.
Nair: Will there be a situation in which I have to answer for everything?
Behanan: No such situation.
Nair: Why I should believe it? Some are keeping away after making promises. Ultimately, I will be under pressure. I too want to live, what I should do?
Behanan: Let us think.
Nair: No sir, I will think about what I should do. You know things are not going to happen as planned. If I say anything about Abdullakutty, it will be rejected as baseless, as Chandy said. You know Chandy had met Sreedharan Nair (a complainant in the case). I have evidence to prove that but I was told to say otherwise.
Another purported conversation between Ravi and Nair’s assistant Vinu Kumar is as follows:
Kumar: We have done everything as you said. But nothing happened. Please show us a way.
Ravi: There is a way for everything.
In another purported conversation, Salim Raj can be heard tutoring Nair on how to give a statement to the police in an investigation relating to the misuse of a landline phone in the Chief Minister’s office.
Later in the day, Abdullkakutty said he and his family had to undergo mental trauma because of the allegations. “My children could not go to school due to the humiliation. My family had to be shifted to Mangalore. No one else should face such a situation. I don’t know what to say about the news that my party colleagues were behind foisting the rape case,” he said.
