'Parineeti to replace Sonakshi in Dabangg 3' ||||
 As per reports, actress Parineeti Chopra will replace Sonakshi Sinha as the lead actress in the Salman Khan starrer 'Dabangg 3'. The film's producer Arbaaz Khan will reportedly approach Parineeti for Rajjo's role soon. Earlier, reports stated that Salman was not keen to work with Sonakshi after she refused to work in Arbaaz Khan's production 'Dolly Ki Doli'. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/15ee525b-de2e-450d-8d98-cd9b27f837a8-1||||
Salman Khan is on a roll. After the success of Sultan, the 50-year-old actor would soon begin shooting for Kabir Khan's Tubelight. And buzz has it that post this, he would start filming Dabangg 3. The popular franchise has been a hit with the audience, but speculation has it that Sonakshi Sinha won't reprise the role of Rajjo in the third part of the instalment and the makers are on a search for a new Rajjo.
ALSO READ: Sonakshi Sinha not in Salman Khan's Dabangg 3 because of bad blood?
According to a report in Spotboye.com , the makers have found the perfect replacement for Sonakshi. And if the buzz is to be believed, Parineeti Chopra might step into the steps of Sona to play Rajjo in Dabangg 3.
A source close to Salman was d as telling the website, "Arbaaz Khan feels that Parineeti would be suitable for Rajjo's role. He will approach her very soon."
In fact, the website further reports that Salman and Parineeti were spotted together after the  Bajirangi Bhaijaan actor launched Sania Mirza's autobiography Ace Against Odds.  
There has been a lot of buzz that all is not well between Salman and Sonakshi. Their camaraderie reportedly ran into rough waters when Sonakshi turned down Arbaaz Khan's production Dolly Ki Doli which was initially offered to her. And this very news did not go down too well with Salman.
And reportedly Salman is not keen to work with Sonakshi again. And that's the reason that the makers are looking for her repalcement.
And if all goes well, fans will get to see Salman and Parineeti together on screen for the very first time in Dabangg 3. 
