Anil Kumble resigns as the chief mentor of MI ||||
 India's highest ODI and test wicket-taker, Anil Kumble stepped down as the chief mentor of Mumbai Indians on Monday. Kumble ended his three-year association with the franchise with a wish to pursue other interests around cricket. Under his guidance, Mumbai has won two IPL championships (2013, 2015) along with one Champions league title (2013). ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/91828681-0013-0011-0287-000012345678||||
MUMBAI Indians chief mentor Anil Kumble has decided to step down from his post from the IPL franchise with immediate effect. The former India captain has been associated with Mumbai Indians since January 2013 and he has decided to pursue other opportunities in sports and cricket.
This comes in the wake of BCCI’s crack down on the conflict of interest issue, a few weeks ago, Sourav Ganguly had replaced Kumble as the BCCI technical committee chief as the leg-spinner was still acting as mentor to Mumbai Indians.
India team director Ravi Shastri was also removed from the IPL Governing Council while selector Roger Binny, whose son Stuart is a member of the national team, was also forced to quit.
In a press statement, Kumble said: “I sign off with the obvious satisfaction of moulding a set of brilliant individuals to a high performing unit. Over the 3 years, MI met unprecedented success winning the IPL twice & the Champions League once. Winning both trophies in the same year (2013) being our crowning glory.”
Support staff to be given option
Meanwhile, three Indian team support staff Sanjay Bangar (batting consultant), Bharat Arun (bowling coach) and fielding coach R Sridhar will have to choose between the Indian team and IPL in case their contract with the Indian team is extended beyond March 2016.
Bangar is currently coach of Kings XI Punjab, Arun is the bowling coach at Royal Challengers Bangalore and Sridhar is fielding coach at Kings XI Punjab.
A top BCCI official said that as IPL is slated to be held only next year, the conflict of interest issue will arise if the board decides to renew their contracts with the Indian team after March 2016.
“We will give them the choice whether they want to be with the Indian team or the IPL franchisees. There is no point in removing them now as their contract will end in another four months’ time. At the same time we don’t want to shuffle too much with the support staff as the T20 World Cup is around,” a top BCCI official told The Indian Express.
