Advocates seek transfer of K'taka Chief Justice ||||
 The Advocates Association of Bengaluru has passed a resolution seeking the transfer of the Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court, Subhro Kamal Mukherjee. This comes after Mukherjee had recused himself from hearing a case, stating that he was offered a bribe to pass a favourable order. The Advocates have also written to the Chief Justice of India on the matter. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d172e994-f0d0-4a13-a659-408bdd20855a-1||||
A general body meeting of the Advocates Association of Bengaluru has passed a resolution seeking the transfer of the Chief Justice of Karnataka Subroto Kamal Mukherjee. It also took a decision to write to the Chief Justice of India to investigate a bribe offer made to the Chief Justice of Karnataka, which Justice Mukherjee cited on July 2 while recusing himself from a case.
The president of the Advocates Association of Bengaluru, H C Shivaramu, said the association discussed the issue of the bribe offer Wednesday and passed a resolution to seek the CJ’s transfer.
On July 5, Justice Mukherjee had recused himself from hearing a review petition filed by a private real estate firm, Umrah Developers, after stating in court that someone had approached him at his official residence in Bengaluru to offer a favour for a favourable order in the matter. “Since one of us (Subhro Kamal Mukherjee, Chief Justice) is not inclined to take up this matter on personal ground, let this matter go out of the list,” the division bench comprising Justice Mukherjee and Justice Ravi Malimath had said in its order.
A group of advocates from Bengaluru had approached Justice Mukherjee last week to urge him to initiate legal proceedings against the persons allegedly involved in offering him a bribe in the interest of the sanctity of the High Court. He, however, told the delegation, which included former advocates association president K N Puttegowda and advocates S Basavaraju, Raghupathy and M Veerabharaiah, that he was not inclined to take the matter forward.
“This is not a matter that is of relevance to the Karnataka High Court alone, but is important for the judiciary as a whole since it is a question of what a judge should do when such offers are made. If the Chief Justice had only recused himself it would not have mattered, but since an offer of a favour was mentioned some action needs to be taken,” a senior advocate said.
