7 Indian shuttlers qualify for Rio Olympics ||||
 India's largest ever Badminton contingent for Olympics, which included seven shuttlers, has qualified to participate in the 2016 Rio Olympics. The list includes singles players Saina Nehwal, PV Sindhu and Kidambi Srikanth, and doubles pairs of Jwala Gutta-Ashwini Ponnappa and Manu Attri-Sumeeth Reddy. The list was confirmed after Badminton Asia Championships, which ended on Sunday. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/67fca230-f579-44c8-8aed-f811f1a9e763-1||||
There’s seven in the mix this time, but a medal seems like a distant wonder at this juncture. While there is an incremental increase from five shuttlers at London to seven at Rio, India’s hopes of equalling or bettering that medal count in the high profile sport of badminton will only be boosted with a mammoth step-up in effort from those who have qualified this time.
Apart from London bronze medallist Saina Nehwal, headed to the Olympics for a third time, there is PV Sindhu on way to her maiden Games as well as K Srikanth in men’s singles, another first timer. Jwala Gutta and Ashwini Ponappa (No. 15) have made the grade for a second straight Olympics according to qualification cut-offs released this week, while Manu Attri and Sumeeth Reddy (No 19) — relative rookies in men’s doubles internationally, complete the seven-member badminton contingent — incidentally, India’s highest ever.
A maximum of two entries per category per nation is permitted at this Games.
At the start of the year, India had looked poised to send two men’s singles players to Rio as well, given the intermittently encouraging performances of Ajay Jayram and HS Prannoy in the last couple of years, as well as Parupalli Kashyap’s breakthrough in winning a title at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. However, mounting injuries meant Kashyap struggled on fitness as the qualification deadline neared and it swallowed his chances accounting for his dramatic drop to No. 24 in rankings from Top Ten in October 2015. Ajay and Prannoy just couldn’t bring themselves to summon the desperation to wrench those big wins when needed the most and put themselves into contention.
India is one of only eight countries in the world to qualify two entries in a category — women’s singles, with PV Sindhu (ranked No. 10) joining Saina Nehwal (ranked No. 8). However, women’s singles which yielded India its first ever Olympic medal in shuttle at the Wembley Arena four years ago, happens to be the most stiffly contested categories this time with any of the Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Thai and Spanish Carolina Marin being considered equal contenders at this juncture.
So while it’s historic that both Saina and Sindhu made it to Rio, it was largely along expected lines given the two have spent lengthy periods in the Top 10 in recent seasons. Expectations in India having soared much higher than pre-London, and the real breakthrough will be nothing short of a medal for the Indian women.
“Saina’s still our best bet and Sindhu has an outside chance,” says former international Arvind Bhat.
Lack of consistency
On current form, and a closer scrutiny of performances in the last few tournaments from start of this year point to a visible lack of consistency among those who have qualified with only Nehwal having reached as far as semis in Super Series level meets. “She’s much more experienced than last time, and mentally far stronger. She also has the advantage of having won a medal and is known to be gritty. Fitness will be her biggest challenge because women’s singles is much tougher at Rio than what it was at London. She can even crack Carolina Marin, but the two Chinese will be tough again,” Bhat says.
Sindhu remains a sort of a mystery in these big tournaments. “She’s won two World Championship medals and that’s no joke, so she’s always dangerous. She’s tall and has a big game. But she’s yet to win a Super Series and these experiences matter. She’ll need that extra push to her game and hunger,” Bhat reckons.
Srikanth who dropped out of Top 10 is the one that badminton followers are desperately praying will crack the medal, however his run in the last one year has been colossally insipid. “The losses can play on his mind, and he’ll need to put his head down and lift his game,” Bhat says. His drop in rankings means he’ll have to hope he avoids the Top 4 — Lin Dan, Chen Long, Lee Chong Wei and either of the Danes Axelsen and Jorgensen, in the pre quarters.
Japanese Kento Momota’s suspension opens up men’s singles, but Srikanth will need to play out of his skin to upset the last Olympic outings of the two legends, Dan and Chong Wei, and title favourite Chen Long. “We all want Srikanth to win because it’ll be massive for India and he has the game, and I’ll be happy to be proved wrong. You never know, but it’s very tough,” Bhat said.
Jwala-Ashwini, who’ve done well at consecutive Commonwealth Games, but struggled to cross quarters in Super Series, can bank on the fact that Olympics are kinder to shuttlers from outside China, Japan and Korea with only two pairings allowed. Olympics tend to be easier than Super Series — in draws — and the Indian pairing needs two big wins — one against an equal calibre combine in the pool stage and then the quarters, to get into medal contention.
For youngsters Manu-Sumeeth, the first ever men’s doubles pairing to qualify for Olympics, Rio can add to their experience, even as specialist coach Kim Tan Her looks to Tokyo four years from now.
