Chandy slams Modi over Kerala-Somalia comparison ||||
 Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy on Wednesday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his recent remarks comparing Kerala with Somalia, saying he had insulted the state. Chandy asked Modi to show some "political decency" by withdrawing his remark. He countered Modi, saying Kerala is above the national average in economic growth and human resource development for the past five years. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/80c0b5fe-f9d0-4dbf-8394-8e10bd8a87f5-1||||
Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy on Wednesday lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for comparing Kerala to Somalia, saying he has insulted the state, and asked him to show some “political decency” by withdrawing his remark.
In a hard-hitting letter to Modi, Chandy said the prime minister’s comparison of Kerala to Somalia during a recent campaign rally, claiming the state had ‘adverse’ economic and social parameters, has “shocked” the people of the state as it has nothing to do with the ground realities. He also requested Modi to show some “political decency” by withdrawing the statement as they are “baseless and contrary to ground realities.”
Countering Modi’s remark that the state had lagged behind in various growth indicators including health and education, Chandy said Kerala was above national average in terms of economic growth and human resource development for the past five years.
Chandy also said the state’s human resource has caught the attention of the world.
“Yet, you (PM) compared Kerala to Somalia that is reeling under poverty and internal strife. Is it not a shame for the prime minister to pronounce that a state like Somalia exists in the country?” Chandy said.
Referring to the statement, Chandy said, “This is unbecoming of a prime minister and has created a great deal of agony and protest.”
WATCH VIDEO | Kerala Twitterati Vent Ire At Modi’s Somalia Remark: Here’s What He Said

“With great deal of regret, let me point out that they (previous PMs) never attempted anything that brought disrepute to the office of the Prime Minister like you have done,” he said in the letter, a copy of which was released to the media.
On Modi’s jibe over the solar scam, in which allegations have been raised against him, Chandy said “no one in Kerala is going to be in panic on hearing the word ‘solar'”. He said people of Kerala know well that not even a single penny of the government was lost in the scam, which is a financial fraud whose victims are private parties.
“I wonder whether it befits a Prime Minister to feel disgraced during the time of election and proud on other occasions,” Chandy said, while pointing out to Modi’s praise on solar power initiatives in Kerala several times.
The BJP meanwhile backed the PM’s statement and alleged various welfare laws for the SC/ST communities were not being implemented in the state.
“For the benefit of SC/ST brothers, many laws made by the Central government are not being implemented in Kerala. Isn’t this an insult to the state,” BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan told reporters.
“The Chief Minister has raised the issue of the Malayalee pride being hurt now, only with an eye on the May 16 Assembly polls,” Rajasekharan said.
Media had highlighted reports of two tribal children rummaging for food at a waste dump in a tribal colony at Peravur in Kannur district and the incident had shaken the conscience of the nation, he said, adding, there was nothing wrong and ‘unnatural’ about what PM had said.
Referring to Chandy’s claim that for the welfare of the tribals, crores had been spent by the government and that no child in the state will eat from the waste dump, the BJP leader claimed that at Attapadi, 143 children have died due to malnourishment.
“Has the Chief Minister forgotten about them,” he asked. Chandy should explain the steps taken by the government to stop starvation deaths in the state, he said.
Excerpts from Chandy’s letter clarifying on the news about the tribal children:
 
 
