Audio of solar scam accused, Kerala CM aide out ||||
 An audio tape that allegedly features a conversation between the key accused in the solar scam Saritha Nair and aide of Kerala CM Oommen Chandy was aired by TV channels in the state on Wednesday. The taped conversation revolves around the solar scam wherein CM Chandy's aide Ravi is directing the accused on what to say before the probe panel. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/57565764-0005-0001-8496-000012345678||||
Television channels in Kerala Wednesday aired the audio of a purported conversation between Congress state general secretary Thampanoor Ravi and ‘solar scam’ accused Saritha S Nair in which Ravi can be heard tutoring her ahead of her deposition before a judicial commission.
In the audio, Ravi, a loyalist of Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, can be purportedly heard telling Nair that her statement before the commission should be in line with what Chandy had said. In his statement, Chandy had told the commission that he had met Saritha three times.
Both Nair, who deposed on Wednesday, and Ravi told TV channels that they had a phone conversation on Tuesday. Nair also said someone she knew may have recorded the conversation.
Listen to the recording
The purported conversation is as follows:
Ravi: Saritha, you should be able to answer questions very well. You should say you had not met Chandy in Delhi.
Nair: Okay.
Ravi: Two times in office and another time on a stage. You should watch what our man (the government counsel) says.
Nair: Okay, okay. My statement would be recorded tomorrow.
Ravi: Saritha, you should be careful… while answering questions.
Nair: That cross-examination by Bjiu (Radhakrishnan, co-accused)…
Ravi: Yes, that scoundrel. He would be trouble. The statement should be very safe.
Nair: Okay sir, I understand.
Ravi: When is the examination slated for tomorrow?
Nair: Tomorrow morning, sir…
Ravi: Yes, yes, read today’s (newspaper) Mathrubhumi.
Nair: Okay, I will. One website has given Chandy’s full statement.
Ravi: What are you going to say about the letter? (Nair had written a 21-page letter and handed it over to her lawyer while she was lodged in a jail in Pathanamthitta. It reportedly contained names of VIPs and a senior police officer allegedly linked to the scandal.)
Nair: The letter was stayed. (The Kerala High Court had Monday stayed an order of the commission to produce the letter before it.)
Ravi: What will you say?
Nair: That is a personal issue. It was not related to this issue.
Ravi purportedly advised Nair to consult the government counsel before appearing before the commission to record her statement. Nair purportedly said she would meet the counsel directly as the phones used by her and the advocate could be tapped.
