Tihar inmate beaten to death inside police van ||||
 A 29-year-old undertrial was beaten to death on Saturday by three inmates inside a police van while being taken back to Tihar jail from a Delhi court. Police tried breaking up the fight using tear gas before opening the van's prisoners' section that had 50 undertrials. Officials claimed they did not have prior information about the rivalry between the prisoners. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/18130454-0010-0001-4704-000012345678||||
A 29-year-old inmate of Tihar Jail was allegedly beaten to death inside a jail van while it was on its way back to prison from Saket court Saturday.
The victim, identified as Manoj alias Bobby, was facing charges in seven criminal cases. He had been lodged in Tihar Jail for the last four months.
Manoj was allegedly pinned to the floor of the bus by three inmates, who repeatedly hit him on the chest and head, leading to his death, said sources.
The motive behind the murder was personal enmity between the victim and the three accused, said sources. The accused have been identified as Vishal alias Banti, Rajinder alias Raju and Salman, all residents of Ambedkar Nagar.
The jail van, carrying 50 prisoners from Tihar jail no. 7 and 8, was being guarded by eight policemen.
The incident took place Saturday afternoon in Hauz Khas area. As the van neared Laxmi Public School located on Ring Road, the policemen sitting with the driver heard sounds of a scuffle from the prisoners’ section.
According to rules, when a clash takes place inside a prison van while ferrying inmates, the policemen escorting the prisoners have to take the vehicle to a safe place. They are allowed to open the van’s door only in the presence of additional policemen.
“The policemen in the rear part of the van tried to stop the fight by lobbing two tear gas shells inside the prisoner’s section. The driver made a call to the police control room at 1.45 pm and stopped the bus near IIT, after crossing Panchsheel and IIT flyovers,” said a police officer.
Soon, two PCR vans arrived at the spot and they escorted the van to Hauz Khas police station. When policemen finally opened the van’s door, they found Manoj seriously injured. He was rushed to the AIIMS trauma centre where he was declared dead, said the officer.
The other prisoners were taken back to Tihar Jail in another van, which was escorted by police vehicles. A case of murder has been registered at Hauz Khas police station and investigation is underway, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Prem Nath.
“Prima facie, it was found that the attackers and the victim were rivals and they killed him in a fit of rage,” said Nath.
The 3rd Battalion, which is in charge of ferrying prisoners, had not been informed of any kind of enmity between the inmates, said Deputy Commissioner of Police Asif Mohd Ali.
“All the prisoners were undertrials and there was no prior information about any sort of rivalry between them,” said Ali.
