Live-action movie based on Pokemon to be made ||||
 The rights for a live-action film which will be based on popular Pokemon games have been acquired by Legendary Pictures. The film will revolve around a character in the Pokemon universe, 'Detective Pikachu', which was introduced in a game that came out in Japan earlier this year. The screenplay will reportedly be penned by Max Landis, who wrote 'Power Rangers'. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c185db9b-a9db-417b-9174-989c77e0cd8a-1||||
Legendary Pictures has secured the rights to make Pokemon movie after the massive success of widely popular game Pokemon GO. According to Deadline, the studio, and the Pokemon Company have closed their deals to launch the first live-action movie based on the Japanese pocket monster game.
The live-action film will center on a character in the Pokemon universe, Detective Pikachu, which was introduced in a game that came out in Japan earlier this year. Though details of the story are still kept under wraps, the screenplay will reportedly be penned by Max Landis, who also wrote the script of Power Rangers.
Legendary will begin production of the film next year with Universal Pictures distributing outside Japan. Toho will handle the distribution in Japan as the studio had previously done the same in distributing the reboot of Godzilla movie franchise.
Pokemon GO puts Pokemon in the real world by utilizing GPS location information and makes players chase down the virtual pocket monsters in their own vehicles.  The games are based on a popular hobby of bug catching from Japan.
Pokemon itself is a franchise of video games, trading cards, TV shows, comic books and movies. The franchise focuses on the unique creatures that are collected by Pokemon Trainers, who then train them to battle for sport. Pokemon was created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1995.
The first video game was launched for Game Boy and  was released in 1996. Nineteen animated films based on the property have been made with the first movie, Pokemon: The First Movie: Mewtwo Strikes Back, released in 1998.
