Delhi govt to send teachers abroad for training ||||
 The Delhi government on Monday announced that the teachers would be sent to foreign institutions of high reputation across the world in order to improve the quality of education in government schools. Education Minister Manish Sisodia, who highlighted the need to provide training to the teachers, also said that government teachers are only getting to attend seminars. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/06470515-0007-0001-8063-000012345678||||
The Delhi government has opened up new avenues for school principals and teachers by announcing that they would be sent to foreign institutions of academic repute to improve the quality of teaching in government schools.
“Principals and teachers in Delhi government schools will also get to undergo training akin to the way teachers in the best schools of the world are trained. For this, they can be sent to foreign universities, they can be sent to IITs, IIMs… teachers’ training will be done in the best institutions in the world, so that they also feel that their training is being invested in,” said Education Minister Manish Sisodia.
Stating that government school teachers were only “getting to attend seminars” at State Council Educational Research and Training, the minister stressed on the need for making teachers undergo leadership training.
“A teacher is a leader for at least 40 children. They will get leadership training here,” said the minister while speaking at a meeting of School Management Committee (SMC) members in Patparganj.
Stating that the government had worked hard on improving the infrastructure of government schools in its first year, Sisodia said the government will now focus on improving the quality of education in Delhi government schools through teacher training.
Sources in the government said that while teachers and principals will be sent to visit some of the best universities abroad, teachers from outside will also come to Delhi as part of exchange programmes.
“Anyone can make roads and baraat ghars. If the 23 government schools in Patparganj can become better than the private schools in the area, then I will consider my becoming an MLA of this area a success,” Sisodia said.
The Delhi government, had last year, conducted SMC elections in all government schools in the Capital.
Stating that the members had become his eyes and ears, Sisodia said he does not wait for the director now to get information.
“Every school has at least five to six parents from whom I can seek information. Earlier, I would ask the director who would ask the Deputy Director… now, I can get information about any school I want within an hour… This was tested in December when SMC teams inspected schools… I remember telling the department… now you won’t tell me how many schools are clean, now I’ll tell you which schools are dirty and you will get them cleaned,” he added.
