Govt muzzling the voice of opposition: Sonia ||||
 Congress President Sonia Gandhi, on Monday, blamed the government of "muzzling" the voice of the Opposition, students and civil society. At the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, she said, "Government seems hell-bent on destroying the spirit of inquiry, questioning, debate, and dissent". The CWC also passed a resolution accusing the RSS of imposing its ideology on universities and colleges. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/59476956-0016-0002-2573-000012345678||||
STATING THAT the government had unleashed a “totally manufactured” debate on patriotism and nationalism to cover up its numerous “failures”, the Congress on Monday said it would raise these issues with “like-minded parties”.
Addressing the CWC meeting to firm up the party’s strategy ahead of the Budget Session, party president Sonia Gandhi said “the ruling establishment seems to have lost all sense of balance and proportion.”
“It appears determined to undermine all democratic norms… to destroy the spirit of inquiry, spirit of questioning, spirit of debate and dissent. First, it muzzled our voice in the Lok Sabha. Then it silenced civil society activists. Now, it is the turn of universities… where young people must have the fullest freedom to express themselves,” she said.


Share This Article



Related Article RSS trying to impose flawed ideology on students: Rahul Gandhi Rahul, Sonia sabotaging country’s growth, says BJP Parliament logjam: Jaitley blames it all on Sonia and RahulQuestions from Congress Prince of Cong frustrated,has lost mental balance: Sena Sonia must apologise for her 'internal threat' remarks: Advani
								jQuery(document).ready(function(){
									jQuery('.rel-article').bxSlider({
									maxSlides: 6,
									slideMargin: 3
									});
								});
								
“To cover up its many failures, the ruling establishment has once again unleashed its divisive agenda by generating a wholly unwarranted debate on patriotism and nationalism. Simply put, democratic and liberal value are under severe assault. The freedom to think and speak are being drastically curtailed,” she said.
The CWC accused the “BJP, RSS and affiliated organisations” of having engineered the “disturbing developments” across the country in recent months, stating that “what has been happening is part of a deliberate plan to divert attention from the government’s numerous failures.”
Referring to the JNU row, it said “a totally manufactured debate on patriotism is being generated through manipulated news clips.” Sources said almost all the CWC members applauded Rahul Gandhi for having visited JNU.
