Nitish calls for Modi to fulfil his fund promise ||||
 Addressing the state assembly, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said that the 1.65 lakh crore special package promised by PM Narendra Modi for Bihar's development in the run-up to the polls should be made possible. I would like sincere implementation of the package, he said while proposing the formation of a committee to monitor the expenses under the package. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/51195282-0008-0012-1363-000012345678||||
Mounting pressure on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the first time after coming back to power, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar Tuesday said that the PM should now keep his word on the special package of Rs 1.65 lakh crore for the state.
“Centre should implement the package,” said the Bihar CM in the state assembly. This was the first time Nitish welcomed the special package, which he had dismissed as Centre’s statistical jugglery during the election campaign. He also asked Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary to set up a joint committee with members from both Houses to monitor expenses made under the special package.
Responding to the Governor’s speech, Nitish said: “I do not want to unnecessarily attack the Centre, which otherwise has not been liberal with funds of the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. As for the special package announcement, it was said during election campaign (by the PM) that the Bihar government would return the fund or will not be able to spend it. I would recommend the Speaker to constitute a committee, taking members from Legislative Council as well, to monitor expenses of the Rs 1.65 lakh crore fund, which was announced by the PM.”
Nitish said that soon after the special package was announced, he had sought details about it from the Union finance minister, who made it clear that the package sum was a cumulative figure of several ongoing schemes.
Nitish is coming to Delhi to attend the wedding reception of Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley’s daughter on Wednesday. PM Modi is also expected to attend the function.
