Mehbooba wants 'Go to Pakistan' taunts to stop ||||
 At a debate on intolerance in Parliament on Friday, PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti said that critics shouldn't be taunted to go to Pakistan every time as "we belong to this country, this country owns us." Mufti added that India is better than Pakistan or Syria and Indian Muslims follow real Islam" as majority "tolerant" Hindu population makes it possible. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/86239716-0004-0011-9973-000012345678||||
Amidst the debate on “intolerance”, PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti, ally of the BJP in Jammu and Kashmir, appealed to MPs from the ruling party to avoid asking critics to “go to Pakistan” while AIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi wanted the treasury benches to spell out their definition of “secularism”.
Mehbooba said there is tolerance in India and whatever was seen as incidents of intolerance was the “failure of the system” and failure of politicians. She said compared to the situation in countries like Pakistan and Syria, where “one cannot even open the mouth”, things were much better in India.
Referring to actor Aamir Khan’s remark that his wife considered leaving India in the backdrop of intolerant incidents, which came in for severe criticism, Mehbooba said if one feels scared in a place due to some incidents, it does not mean that they want to leave the country. “Baar baar Pakistan ka tana dena nahin chahiye (Don’t taunt about Pakistan)… We belong to this country, this country owns us,” she said.
The PDP leader said that scientists, authors and historians returning awards to protest “growing intolerance” is the biggest proof of the country’s tolerance. “Indian Muslims follow the real Islam. This is also because the Hindu majority (community) is very tolerant… Historians, authors and scientists have been protesting and returning their awards. The way they came out in protest keeps the nation alive… In Pakistan or Syria even if a Muslim is killed one cannot open their mouth,” she said.
Participating in the debate, former Speaker P A Sangma said the parliamentary form was the best form of government for India. He added that Parliament should have more debates, instead of adjournments.
Intervening in the debate, HRD Minister Smriti Irani said the biggest tribute to Ambedkar was the government’s education policy. As Ambedkar wanted free and compulsory education for every child, she said it was during Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s regime that right of education was introduced.
AAP’s Harinder Singh Khalsa alleged that by interpreting “secularism” in its own way, BJP was trying to make “mockery” of Ambedkar. He expressed concern over some sections talking about religious conversions and ‘ghar wapsi’. He also said Ambedkar did not “only represent dalits and untouchables” but the entire people.
About the country’s education system, RLSP member Arun Kumar said the talk of intolerance was “denting” the image of the country and urged the media, artistes and authors not to indulge in such things.
Referring to instances of communal violence, Owaisi said right to life was a fundamental right.
