'Bacardi NH7 Weekender' to begin on October 21 ||||
 The seventh edition of the 'Bacardi NH7 Weekender' will begin from Shillong, where it will be held between October 21-22. The festival will be held for the first time in Hyderabad, between November 5-6, and later in Pune between December 2-4. Further, a one-day 'Bacardi NH7 Weekender Express' is being launched in Kolkata, Jaipur, Puducherry, Nagpur and Mysuru. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2d2d12b8-94aa-400e-b9e9-723f90e29456-1||||
Come October and Bacardi NH7 Weekender will be back with its seventh edition with a bang. The festival will make a comeback with new concepts like Bacardi NH7 Weekender Express and Bacardi NH7 Weekender House Parties. The festival will once again begin its journey from Shillong on October 21-22 following its successful debut last year. Then the festival heads to Hyderabad (November 5-6) for the very first time, and to Pune (December 2-4), read a statement.
Fans in other cities have a reason to rejoice too. The festival will soon introduce its special edition — BACARDÍ NH7 Weekender Express to Kolkata, Jaipur, Pondicherry, Nagpur and Mysore. Complete with the Bacardi Arena and an array of breakthrough artistes, the one-day edition will give fans a preview of what the Bacardi NH7 Weekender experience is like. The festival also has plans for several build-up gigs across popular venues in the country.
Also, starting August, fans will get a chance to host their own Bacardi NH7 Weekender House Parties. With 100 curated house parties in the offing, BACARDÍ and Only Much Louder – the creators of some popular entertainment festivals like BACARDÍ NH7 Weekender and Stage42, will give select fans the gear to throw their own Weekender parties.
Vijay Nair, CEO, Only Much Louder, said: “We’re incredibly proud to be able to take the quintessential festival experience to Hyderabad for the first time this year, and to be able to touch new cities like Jaipur, Pondicherry, Nagpur and Mysore as part of the Bacardi NH7 Weekender Express.
“There’s a lot more surprises in store on the road to the festival and we can’t wait to share all the details with fans in the coming weeks. Of course, there are some surprises you’ll only discover once you walk through the festival gates.”
Since 2010, over 100 artistes across diverse genres have played at the fest each year.
The 2015 edition witnessed performances by some of the most acclaimed international headliners and stellar names from the Indian music scene, including A. R. Rahman, Mark Ronson, Megadeth, The Raghu Dixit Project, NUCLEYA and Bhayanak Maut.
