Prime accused in Vyapam Scam arrested in UP ||||
 Ramesh Shivhare, one of the prime accused in the Vyapam scam, was arrested on Wednesday from Kanpur in a joint operation by the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force and CBI. Shivhare had been absconding for the last three years and is wanted in five cases over alleged irregularities in the conduct of the Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (Vyapam). ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/25a2d9b3-a980-4e07-8d6c-61cb0db69989-1||||
In a joint operation, the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) and CBI arrested Ramesh Chandra Shivhare, one of the prime accused in the Vyapam scam, from Kanpur Tuesday night.
Accused in six different cases related to alleged irregularities in the conduct of Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board, also known as Vyapam, Shivhare had been absconding for the past two years years and carried a reward of Rs 10,000.
“We have arrested Shivhare. He is wanted by CBI in several cases in the Vyapam scam,” DGP Javeed Ahmed said.
Additional SP, STF, Dr Arvind Chaturvedi said the joint team, acting on a tip-off, arrested Shivhare from his residence in Kalyanpur locality of Kanpur district Tuesday night. They also recovered four cellphones, Rs 94,000 in cash, cheque books of different banks and documents of aspirants for different recruitment exams from Shivhare’s house, the ASP added.
Shivhare is accused of arranging impostors and dummy candidates to appear in the examinations carried out by Vyapam between 2006 and 2013.
A native of Mahoba in UP, Shivhare is married to Samajwadi Party worker Anshu Shivhare, who is presently a zila panchayat member from Khanna block in the district. Anshu was Mahoba zila panchayat chairperson between 2011-2016.
According to STF, after getting B Tech degree from Harcourt Butler Technological Institute (HBTI) in leather technology in 2005, Shivhare started ‘Paradise Coaching Institute’ at Kakadeo area in Kanpur where he came into contact of several students looking to clear medical and engineering entrance exams through any means.
During questioning, Shivhare told the police that it was while running the coaching institute that he got in touch with Santosh Gupta of Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh, who advised him to arrange “solver (dummy candidate who can solve questions)” for the entrance exams organised by Vyapam. Shivhare said that he had been involved in Vyapam scam with Gupta and others for over six years. He also told the STF that some government officials who conducted the Vyapam exams too were involved in the scam.
About 185 cases have been registered in connection with Vyapam scam so far naming 3,500 accused.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
