Cong protests over 7th Pay Commission in Delhi ||||
 Congress Delhi unit on Saturday held a protest against the Centre's decision to implement the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission. Calling the announcement a "betrayal", Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken said that the Commission had recommended a 14.27% salary hike of government employees, the lowest so far. The party demanded a minimum monthly pay of 25,000 for government employees. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/f9b8ef03-3fcf-4587-9bb3-83162f7c1e72-1||||
Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken, along with party workers, held a protest Saturday at Jantar Mantar against the central government's decision to implement the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission.
Terming the announcement a "betrayal", Maken said the 7th Pay Commission had recommended a 14.27 per cent hike in the salaries of government employees, which was the “lowest”, compared to the recommendations of the previous Pay Commissions.
Watch Video: What's making news
In a memorandum submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Congress stated, “It is very frustrating that while approving the recommendations of the Pay Commission, no effort is made to improve the financial and working conditions of the employees.”
The party has demanded that the minimum pay of government employees should be fixed at Rs 25,000 per month, and there should be no dilution of any allowances in any manner. The Congress also accused the BJP-led central government of “throttling government employees to help out the private sector.”
Addressing party workers, Maken said, “The Congress party is committed to join the government employees in their fight against the central government for getting a fair deal in the implementation of the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission. We will join government employees in their fight on the streets for justice.”
He alleged that the decision of the government will “adversely affect around 1 crore people, and the figures will go up to 2.5 crore if employees of the state governments are also taken into account”. Maken also questioned the “silence” of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal who, he said, “clashes with the Modi government on every issue.”
