Rebel MLAs cant vote in U'khand floor test: SC ||||
 Amid the ongoing Uttarakhand Assembly row, the Supreme Court on Monday rejected the plea of the nine rebel Congress MLAs and barred them from participating in the Assembly floor test, to be held on Tuesday. The MLAs had moved the SC for an urgent hearing challenging the Uttarakhand High Court's order, given earlier in the day, which upheld their disqualification. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c1380485-5475-4690-9ded-2c973aa5662c-1||||
Sealing the fate of the nine disqualified MLAs in Uttarakhand, the Supreme Court has held that they would not be allowed to vote when the Harish Rawat-led Congress government seeks to prove his majority in the state Assembly through the floor test on Tuesday.
On Monday, hours after the Uttarakhand High Court dismissed the appeals of the Congress rebels against the Speaker’s decision to disqualify them, the apex court also declined to let them cast their votes during the floor test. The Principal Secretary, Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs, and Secretary, Legislative Assembly, will be the court-appointed observers for the test.
We have got justice from both High Court & Supreme Court:Indira Hridayesh, Congress on disqualified MLAs #Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/hjERrj13zI
— ANI (@ANI_news) May 9, 2016
A bench of Justices Dipak Misra and Shiva Kirti Singh issued notices to the Speaker and Rawat on an appeal by the MLAs against the High Court order but refused to issue any interim order on allowing them to cast their votes. The MLAs had contended that their votes could be kept in a sealed cover, for now.
Fixing the matter for hearing next on July 12, the bench observed that it could not permit the disqualified MLAs to enter the Assembly and vote since there was no consensus in this regard, unlike the agreement shown by all parties for conducting the floor test.
The rebel MLAs had moved the top court minutes after the High Court pronounced its judgment. The bench decided to hear them along with another plea by the central government, which wanted a “neutral” observer to be appointed apart from the Secretary of the Legislative Assembly.
Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi’s request was opposed by Rawat’s counsel senior advocates Abhishek M Singhvi and Kapil Sibal, who argued that no outsider should be allowed inside the Assembly.
But the bench asserted that the purpose behind ordering the floor test was to save the sanctity of democracy, which is the basic feature of our Constitution.
“This Court… is under the obligation to see that the democracy prevails and not gets hollowed by individuals. The directions, which have been given on the last occasion, was singularly for the purpose of strengthening the democratic values and the constitutional norms. The collective trust in the legislature is founded on the bedrock of the constitutional trust,” it noted.
The bench then directed that both the principal secretary and secretary shall act as its observers, stating “there is the need and there is the necessity to have a neutral perceptionist to see that absolute objectivity is maintained when the voting takes place.”
Subsequently, senior advocate C A Sundaram pleaded that the nine MLAs be allowed also cast their votes, contending it would help the court understand the ground reality. The bench, however, said legal issues regarding the disqualification order would be dealt with in due course and it could not accord any interim reprieve to them.
Earlier, the High Court had dismissed their plea, saying that nine rebel Congress legislators, “under the garb of dissent”, had “deserted the party”, which warranted action under the anti-defection law.
“The instant case is an illustration of the fact that the petitioners (rebel Congress MLAs) have not only deserted the leader and deserted the Government, but under the garb of dissent, they have, by their conduct, deserted the party… If dissent is permitted to unfathomable limit, then it will amount to deserting the party and would also tantamount to voluntarily giving up his membership of such political party under the anti defection law,” Justice Umesh Chandra Dhyani said, while dismissing the plea.
The High Court added that “principles of natural justice have not been violated by the Speaker” and hence, no interference is called for in the impugned order.
On the controversy over the passage of Appropriation Bill, where the rebel MLA’s had sought division to vote upon the bill, it said that Appropriation Bill is a “matter of policy decision” and “if any policy is attacked or if there is clear violation of the manifesto or if there is a fall of the Government”, the same will attract action under the anti-defection law and will amount to “voluntarily giving up the membership of the party”.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
