Goat arrested for grazing in bureaucrats house ||||
 A goat was taken into police custody on Monday in Chhattisgarh's Koriya district for allegedly trespassing and damaging the property of a judge despite repeated warnings. The goat, along with its owner, was booked for trespassing and mischief, which can lead to a prison term of two to seven years. Both of them were released on bail on Tuesday. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/95005175-0009-0002-0756-000012345678||||
A goat and its owner were taken in police custody in Chhattisgarh’s Koriya district, allegedly for trespassing and damaging the property of a judge “despite repeated warnings”. Police officers confirmed the arrest of Abdul Hasan (40), neighbour of judicial magistrate H Ratre in the district’s Janakpur town under sections 447(trespass) and 427(mischief causing damage) and said the goat had been detained too.
Hasan was later let off on bail, officers said. The goat too was released.
Janakpur SHO R S Paikra said the goat often strayed to the bungalow of the magistrate and Hasan, his owner, had been warned several times in this connection. “There was damage to the garden and residents of the bungalow often objected. Even police warned Hasan several times. When the goat kept straying into the judge’s residence, a complaint was filed,” he said.
Surguja IG Dipanshu Kabra said the police followed laid down procedures. “A complaint was filed, which the SHO had to take cognizance of it. The sections of the complaint were of mischief and trespass, which upon investigation were found to be true. So a case was registered and appropriate action was taken. Since the offence is bailable, the accused was later let off,” he said.
Following his arrest, Hasan initially refused bail. Even a warrant was prepared, before senior police officers intervened and he was released on bail after being produced before the tehsildar.
The Congress called the incident a “farce”. “The arrest of a goat is ridiculous. Chhattisgarh police has made fun of themselves. Those accused in serious crimes are roaming free,” said party leader Shailesh Nitin Trivedi.
