DataWind launches new tablet PC 7SC at 2,999 ||||
 DataWind on Thursday launched a new tablet PC 7SC in India at a price of 2,999. With a prepaid GSM sim card, the tablet comes with free internet browsing valid up to one year. It runs on Android 4.4.2 KitKat operating system and features a 7-inch display, VGA rear camera, WiFi, Bluetooth and 4GB of internal storage space. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/34057413-0010-0012-2534-000012345678||||
Consolidating its leadership in the low cost internet connectivity and web access device segment, DataWind, maker of UbiSlate Tablets and Pocket Surfer Smart-phones have expanded their portfolio by launching new tablet to its range 7SC.
At a retail price of only Rs. 2,999 inclusive of all taxes, the tablet offers free internet browsing for one year under a tie-up with RCom and Telenor network on a prepaid GSM sim card.
Datawind has signed an exclusive agreement with Den Snapdeal TV-Shop for selling these tablets through the latter’s 24X7 TV-commerce channel.
In addition to regular voice calling functionality, the tablet incorporates DataWind’s breakthrough web-delivery platform covered by 18 US and international patents allowing the devices to deliver the fastest mobile web experience on regular GSM-EDGE based networks.
This unique technology reduces bandwidth consumption by factors of 10x to 30x, allowing the delivery of web pages even on congested GPRS networks in 5 to 7 seconds (with even faster speeds on 3G and 4G networks).
The Tablet is the lowest cost tablet computer with cellular connectivity, allowing anytime & anywhere internet access with a regular SIM.
Commenting on the launch, Suneet Singh Tuli, President and CEO of DataWind Inc. said, “The new range of smart-phones and tablets are powered with free unlimited Internet browsing for a year on Reliance Communications (RCom) and Telenor network.”
“We are launching this tablet to address the forgotten billions, who are our largest constituent of digital age today. We are very confident that 7SC will impress everyone with its superior quality and innovation. The growing ambition of people will find the product within their reach, geographically as well as economically” added Tuli.
Commenting on the association, Maneesh Goel, CEO, DEN Snapdeal TV-Shop said “Our association with DataWind has been phenomenal. Their aggressive pricing strategy has enabled to capture the substantial pie of the tablet market in India. Tech products contribute to around 50-60% of our overall products category and we hope to even amplify the momentum with the sale of this product.”
The new 7SC tablet is light in weight and smart to carry. It delivers terrific performance for over 6 to 8 hours and comes with the DataWind proprietary web delivery technology that offers high speed internet browsing at lowest data costs possible all-in-all a most affordable, complete infotainment package for the discerning Indian customer.
