Naxal landmine attack kills BSF officer, jawan ||||
 A landmine blast allegedly executed by Naxals in Koraput district, Odisha left a BSF officer and a jawan dead on Friday. An Improvised Explosive Device (IED) planted under the road went off when twenty BSF personnel were returning from conducting an operational task. The jawan was killed immediately, while the officer succumbed to his injuries later. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/66749481-0015-0001-5547-000012345678||||
Two BSF personnel were on Friday killed in an IED blast carried out by suspected Maoists in Kaliajhula jungle in Odisha’s Koraput district.
The incident occurred when a team of 20 BSF personnel was returning to the Dandabadi camp on motorcycles after a combing operation in the jungle. They had gone for the operation after Maoists allegedly killed a trader named Bapi Samant at Dandabadi village on Thursday night. The IED went off when the BSF personnel were about 2.5 km away from their camp.
Deputy Commandant Sunil Behera and Head Constable Sibasish Panda died in the blast.
Senior police officials said the blast took place around 12.30 pm. Head constable Panda, who was riding a bike, was killed on the spot while pillion rider and commander of the squad Behera succumbed to injuries later. “The bike was tossed several feet up in the air due to the impact of the blast,” officials said.
Officials said that on Thursday night, around 50 suspected Maoists reached Dandabadi village and tied up Samant with his wife. He was accused of being a police informer, paraded around the village and then shot dead. The suspected Maoists also burnt down Samant’s mini truck and looted his shop, said officials.
The blast took place on a day CM Naveen Patnaik told senior police officers that resurgence of Maoist violence in four districts was a cause for concern.
“Left-wing extremism continues to be a major concern for the state. Though we have been able to contain the menace to areas bordering our neighbouring states, recent movement and activities of the Maoist cadre in districts of Bolangir, Kalahandi, Kandhamal and Boudh is worrisome,” he said at the annual conference of senior police officers.
 
