LoP BJP MLA forcibly removed from Delhi Assembly ||||
 Leader of Opposition (LoP), BJP MLA Vijender Gupta, was escorted by marshals out of the Delhi Assembly on Monday following his argument with women AAP MLAs. The argument was regarding BJP MLA OP Sharma's derogatory remarks on AAP MLA Alka Lamba. Meanwhile, Gupta alleged that he was abused and assaulted inside the Assembly, but the Speaker was biased against him. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/89269171-0013-0011-0274-000012345678||||
In a dramatic start to the Delhi Assembly session Monday, the speaker ordered marshals to take leader of opposition Vijender Gupta out of the House, following the ruckus over media statements allegedly made by suspended BJP MLA O P Sharma.
Gupta alleged that the inquiry by the ethics committee ordered by speaker Ram Niwas Goel was not impartial. He claimed that he was abused by AAP MLAs in the assembly and they even raised their hand but no inquiry was ordered into their conduct.
BJP MLA Vijender Gupta marshalled out of Delhi Assembly. pic.twitter.com/7gcpgiBMs0
— ANI (@ANI_news) November 30, 2015
“I have seen the video clip and I can show it to you too. I did not see any of this happening,” said Goel.
Goel then said that instead of assuring the House that the BJP will examine the statements made by Sharma, Gupta was, in fact, protecting him. “This is very unfortunate. If someone is misbehaving, it is the duty of the seniors in the party to reign him in. He (Gupta) could have just said that he will ask his party to look into Sharma’s statements.”
When Goel asked Gupta to be marshalled out, he and his party colleague Jagdish Pradhan protested in the Well. “You are abusing your power,” Gupta told Goel.
He shouted in protest as marshals grabbed his arms. When he resisted, they lifted him by his feet to take him out. “Yeh kya ho raha hai? Chhod doh (What is happening? Let me go),” Gupta shouted and wriggled out. He again sat on the benches and had to be forced out.
Gupta had protested after women AAP MLAs demanded action against Sharma for the third consecutive assembly session. Sharma was suspended last week for the entire winter session for using ‘objectionable language’ against AAP MLA Alka Lamba.
On Monday, Lamba stepped into the Well with MLAs Sarita Singh and Pramila Tokas and read aloud from an article that quoted Sharma saying ‘Nakti ki naak kati, ab Ravan marega’. “Who is he calling Nakti and who is he calling Ravan?” Lamba said as she stepped into the well again. Deputy Speaker Bandana Kumari also supported Lamba’s claims and sought action against Sharma.
“This is condemnable. He can call me Ravan or mentally unstable but I will never tolerate disrespect towards other members of this house, especially women,” said Goel. Lamba then demanded that the probe into the alleged use of inappropriate language by Sharma be expedited. “There should be a hearing everyday,” she said.
Vijender Gupta files complaint with police
Leader of Opposition Vijender Gupta alleged that he received injuries when the marshals forced him to leave the Assembly. Gupta said he sustained a flesh tear on his left hand and injuries on his left shoulder and right eye. “I bumped my hand on the wooden table and the marshals used force on me,” alleged Gupta.
He added there are rules to be followed before a member is asked to leave and that a warning is issued at least two times. Gupta said he had filed a complaint at Civil Lines police station. “They cannot tolerate even two members of the opposition. The speaker was directed to throw me out as they did not want any opposition on Janlokpal or the Education bill,” alleged Gupta.
 
 
