Drop Paswan, induct Manjhi in the Cabinet: Lalu ||||
 Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad Yadav has proposed that Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan be dropped in Tuesday's Cabinet reshuffle and former Bihar Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi be inducted instead. However, rejecting the proposal of Lalu Yadav, Manjhi said, "Paswan is like my elder brother. I would not like to become a minister by axing Paswan." ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/98062431-39af-4d7a-aad7-ab52a861f437-1||||
The bonhomie that was witnessed between former Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and RJD boss Lalu Prasad Yadav seems to be yeilding results. Ahead of the likely cabinet reshuffle at the Centre, Lalu Prasad has proposed that Jitan Ram Manjhi should be given a cabinet berth at the Centre when the reshuffle takes place.
DROP PASWAN, INDUCT MANJHI: LALU
However, there is a rider attached to Lalu's support for Manjhi. Lalu wants that PM Narendra Modi should drop his cabinet colleague and minister for Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan and induct Manjhi in his place.
Speaking on the sidelines of Iftar party hosted by JDU leader Gulam Gaus in Patna on Sunday, Lalu made this proposal.
"Manjhi should become Union Minister in place of Paswan", said Lalu.
It may be noted that Manjhi invited Lalu at an Iftar party hosted by him last week and Lalu too visited Manjhi on the occasion.
Couple of days later, Lalu too hosted an Iftar party and invited Manjhi and the latter too was present at Lalu's function. This mutual binding between the two leaders had caught many eyeballs and perhaps this new found camaraderie propped Lalu to make demand for cabinet berth for Manjhi. Though this demand is being seen as Lalu's politics of cutting Paswan to size due to their political differences.
MANJHI REJECTS LALU'S IDEA
Jitan Ram Manjhi on the other hand rejected Lalu's proposal maintaining that he would not like to become a minister by replacing Paswan. Manjhi claimed that Ram Vilas Paswan is like his elder brother.
"Paswan is like my elder brother. I would not like to become minister by axing Paswan", said Manjhi.
Also read:
PM Modi to reshuffle cabinet tomorrow, high-level meet today ahead of rejig
