Hungary backs India's membership to NSG ||||
 Hungary, a member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group, on Tuesday expressed its support for India's bid to become a member of the 48-member group. A joint Indo-Hungarian statement said this will "further strengthen nuclear non-proliferation and make global nuclear commerce more secure". A consensus among all the members will be required for India to become a member of the group. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/156aec2a-b3b3-4ec1-a097-66a95c200e9b-1||||
New Delhi, Jul 5 (PTI) Hungary today came out in support of India's bid to become member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), saying its participation at the atomic trading club will further strengthen nuclear non-proliferation and make global nuclear commerce more secure.
The issue figured during External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj's wide-ranging talks with her Hungarian counterpart Peter Szijjarto during which both sides agreed to deepen ties in range of areas including trade, information technology and education.
"Both Ministers agreed that India's participation in the NSG will further strengthen nuclear non-proliferation and make global nuclear commerce more secure," a joint statement issued after the talks said.
It said Swaraj thanked Hungary for its support for India's membership in the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) and its bid to enter the NSG, adding both ministers underlined their shared interest in strengthening global non- proliferation objectives.
In their talks, the two sides exchanged views on global issues such as reform of the United Nations and to combat challenge of terrorism and climate change.
"The two Ministers condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, which constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security.
"They reaffirmed that any act of terrorism is criminal and unjustifiable regardless of its motivations, whenever and by whoever committed. In this context they called for an early adoption by the UNGA of the draft Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism," the statement said.
Both the sides also underlined the need for extending cooperation in areas of trade and investment, science and technology, defence, culture and tourism.
The two ministers also discussed the prospects of free trade agreement between India and European Union in the wake of Britain's decision to exit the EU.
The talks for the FTA have been held up since May 2013 as both the sides are yet to bridge substantial gaps on crucial issues. Both ministers reaffirmed the need to restart negotiations aimed at a balanced India-EU FTA.
