Arjun Kapoor confirms role in 'Half Girlfriend' ||||
 Arjun Kapoor has confirmed that he will be playing the lead role in Mohit Suri's upcoming film 'Half Girlfriend'. The film is an adaptation of Chetan Bhagat's novel of the same name, which revolves around a Bihari boy who falls in love with a 'high class' Delhi girl. Earlier, Shraddha Kapoor had confirmed playing the female lead in the film. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/68962706-0012-0001-8752-000012345678||||
Actor Arjun Kapoor has confirmed that he will be seen in Mohit Suri’s next “Half Girlfriend”. Earlier this month, news broke that Shraddha had been signed to play the female lead in the movie, which is an official adaptation of Chetan Bhagat’s novel of the same name.
Arjun said he is preparing for his character and will start shooting for the film soon.
“I’ve committed to doing Half Girlfriend. I am prepping for it for the next two and a half months and then start it,” Arjun said in an interview.
“Half Girlfriend” is a love story of a Bihari boy and an upper society girl. Based on the backdrop of how English defines a class system, it talks about Madhav, who wants a relationship with the high society, urban and English speaking Riya, but the girl is not interested in commitment. Hence she becomes his half girlfriend.
The movie is expected to go on floors this year and will be shot in varied locations from Bihar, Delhi to New York. Arjun Kapoor gets ‘carried away’ with Raftaar
Meanwhile, Arjun is excited as he is set to make his TV debut as the host of the new season of “Khatron Ke Khiladi”.
“I was very excited when they offered me the show. I did ask them why me.. They said it’s a fact that I am young enough to evolve into any format they need me to be. It was very exciting for me that they thought I was mouldable.” Arjun Kapoor: I don’t deny that I flirt with people, let the rumours spread 
The actor, however, said his biggest fear was if he could host a show successfully as it is a big challenge.
“My biggest fear was will I able to host… I used to fear if I can interact (as a host) but even that isn’t there anymore. Hosting is a challenging thing because you have to be yourself. When you are doing a film you masquerade as a character. As a host I am just Arjun Kapoor while staying honest and entertaining at the same time.”
The reality game show, based on Americas “Fear Factor”, was previously hosted by Akshay Kumar, Priyanka Chopra and Rohit Shetty.
The 30-year-old “Gunday” star feels Akshay took the show to a next level as he is a true “Khiladi”. Pics: Ranveer Singh, Arjun Kapoor’s bromance at a friend’s cocktail party
“The show is internationally renowned for its stunts. With Akshay sir coming in he took it to the next level because he is the true Khiladi.
“He makes stunts look easy and beautiful. He has the body language and personality for it… He is not bound by the show. He is already a person known for his stunts.”
Arjun, who has featured in action movies like “Tevar” and “Gunday”, says action on TV has an “emotional thrust”.
“In films, if you look scared, the director will ask for a retake. In TV, you are not playing a character, you are yourself. Films are designed, have lots of cuts, but here if you’re doing a stunt it is survival of the fittest and facing your fear. It has an emotional thrust.”
