6 killed as building collapses in Chandigarh ||||
 At least six people died and over a dozen were left injured in Chandigarh on Monday after a two-storey building collapsed in Transport Area. As per reports, caving in of a portion of an under-construction wall of the building's basement led to the collapse of the entire building. A licensed bar and a liquor vend were functional from the building. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/03242758-0011-0012-3823-000012345678||||
At least six persons feared dead, while over a dozen sustained grievous injuries in a building collapse that took place in Transport Area of Chandigarh on Monday morning.
According to preliminary reports, a group of labourers were digging a basement in a vacant plot in Transport Area when a concrete structure located adjacent to the vacant plot collapsed. A tavern (ahaata) and a liquor vend were functional from the building that collapsed completely. Workers, who were digging the basement, and people sitting in the tavern and the liquor vend got trapped under the debris.
The Police Control Room received first information about the accident at about 11 am. The rescue teams reached the spot in about 30 minutes. In a four-hour long rescue operation, over a dozen persons were exhumed from the debris.


Share This Article



Related Article Chandigarh plot owner, contractor on the run Day after, UT to launch helpline for reporting illegal constructions Liquor vend collapse: I was sitting inside and I felt as if it was an earthquake, says survivor 6 killed, 11 injured after liquor vend collapses Compressor blast triggers building collapse in Moti Nagar, two dead Two labourers buried alive as earth caves in
								jQuery(document).ready(function(){
									jQuery('.rel-article').bxSlider({
									maxSlides: 6,
									slideMargin: 3
									});
								});
								
While the 11 injured were rushed to PGIMER, out of whom six have succumbed to injuries. Four injured were admitted in Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, while two were admitted in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. A few others who sustained minor injuries were given first-aid.
According to the police, so far, six persons have died while 17 sustained injuries out of whom five are critical and admitted in PGIMER.
Most of the injured had sustained multiple fractures in the limbs and a few have sustained severe head injuries.
The deceased were identified as daily labourers who were working at the construction site. Most of the deceased were residents of Bapu Dham colony, which is located adjacent to the Transport Area where the mishap took place.
The police officials said that legal action shall be taken against the person who had assigned the contract of digging basement to the labourers.
