Kejriwal slams Majithia, vows to create 'new Punjab' ||||
 Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, who on Friday got bail in a defamation case filed by Punjab Revenue Minister Bikram Singh Majithia, has dared the latter to get him arrested within six months, while his party was in power. In the coming elections, people will take revenge from Majithia... After six months (I will) reconstruct a new Punjab," Kejriwal added. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d94e2f6a-8749-45ef-8ca0-2917c9b51e59-1||||
Amritsar, Jul 29 (PTI) Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who today got bail in a defamation case filed by Bikram Singh Majithia, launched a fresh attack on the Punjab Revenue Minister over drug issue, daring the SAD leader to get him arrested and vowed to create a "new Punjab" after six months.
The AAP leader said he was not afraid of "false cases" and warned Majithia that "the people will take revenge from him in the coming elections".
"I challenge Majithia to arrest me in six months as they are in power. Else, I will arrest him after six months," the AAP national convenor said.
"The people of Punjab will take revenge for each and every case against them. In the coming elections, people will take revenge from Majithia," he said.
"After six months (I will) reconstruct a new Punjab," he said.
Kejriwal said Punjab was in a bad state due to the drug problem and renewed his allegations against Majithia who is the brother-in-law of SAD chief and Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal.
"Majithia said that I have defamed him. How dare he say this?" he asked.
"I ask you all, who is the drug dealer in Punjab? I want to ask him, how many mouths will you shut? When I travelled across Punjab, people told me that he files false cases to threaten them," Kejriwal claimed.
"If he and the Badals can file defamation cases against me, I can understand what he can do to the 'Aam Aadmi'," he alleged.
"The court has summoned me, so I came here. I am the Chief Minister of Delhi. God has blessed me with many things but when a case is filed against a common man, his entire life is ruined in going to courts. Today I want to say I'm not afraid of your false cases," he said.
Kejriwal and AAP leader Sanjay Singh were today granted bail by a local court here after they appeared in connection with the defamation case filed by Majithia.
