Dayashankar's mother files FIR against Mayawati ||||
 The mother of BJP's Dayashankar Singh, who was expelled for comparing BSP supremo Mayawati to a sex worker, on Friday lodged an FIR against Mayawati and other BSP leaders for insulting and abusing her family. Alleging that BSP leaders shouted slogans seeking "killing" and "hanging" of Dayashankar during the protests in Lucknow, she claimed her whole family was in danger. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c4740df6-d196-4057-abd5-de541ebc1e78-1||||
THE MOTHER of expelled BJP leader Dayashankar Singh, who had sparked outrage by likening BSP supremo Mayawati to a prostitute in selling election tickets, Friday lodged an FIR against the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister, BSP national general secretary Naseemuddin Siddiqui, state president Ram Achal Rajbhar and other unidentified party leaders on charges of insulting and abusing the family during the party’s protest in Lucknow on Thursday.
Tetra Devi, the BJP leader’s mother, filed the FIR at Hazratganj Police Station here under IPC Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, etc), 504 (insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult modesty of a woman).
She said Siddiqui, Rajbhar, Mewalal and other BSP leaders held the protest on Mayawati’s call and shouted “abuses” to Singh’s mother, sister and daughter. They also shouted slogans seeking the “hanging” and “killing” of Singh, she said.
According to the complaint, Siddiqui called Singh a “dog” and “incited the crowd on the basis of caste and class in order to spread enmity and cause violence at Mayawati’s instructions”.
“They were shouting, ‘Dayashankar, apni beti pesh karo, apni behen pesh karo, apni maa pesh karo, apni patni pesh karo (present your daughter, sister, mother, wife before us). This comes in the category of rape,” she alleged.
Tetra Devi said Singh’s 12-year-old daughter is under “severe trauma” after watching the protest on TV. Alleging that Mayawati and her party leaders are planning to murder Singh, she said the whole family was in danger.
Additional SP (Lucknow East) Shiv Ram Yadav confirmed that the FIR had been registered and said the police would start an investigation.
Singh’s wife Swati, who accompanied Tetra Devi to the police station, said, “If my daughter, my sister-in-law or I are guilty of something, then the law will punish us. It is not the right of Mayawati or BSP leaders to punish us.
Watch Video: The Implications Of Dayashankar’s Remarks On Mayawati That Left The BJP Red-Faced
 
“Mayawati said her party leaders did so out of anger. Will she justify if they murdered someone out of anger? Do I and my daughter not have the right to live with dignity?” she asked.
Referring to a BSP leader’s comment, Swati Singh asked why people who offered Rs 50 lakh as reward for her husband’s tongue were not being condemned.
She claimed that her daughter has refused to go to school because of “the trauma”.
The BJP had on Wednesday removed Singh as the party’s state unit vice-president and later expelled him from the party. He was also booked for his comment under the SC/ST(Prevention of Atrocities) Act, among others.
