I am a fat-to-fit story: Parineeti Chopra ||||
 Actress Parineeti Chopra has called herself a "fat-to-fit story" while talking about her journey to fitness after struggling with weight issues. "I wanted to work on my body, I am 27 years old. I wanted to wear shorts and better clothes and not worry about anything," said Parineeti. She added that it took her a year-and-half to get fit. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/31425bba-6aa1-4eaf-95ed-51865a0728ff-1||||
Mumbai, Jul 12 (PTI) Having been on a weight losing spree, actress Parineeti Chopra felt the pressure of Bollywood to be in shape but she is now happy to be fit.
"There are women who are pregnant or are dealing with post pregnancy weight, or teenagers who are obese, from across the world, (they) want to know my story. I am a fat-to-fit story," Parineeti told reporters here at a song launch event.
"I have struggled with my weight. I was big and unhealthy, not chubby. I took it upon myself to work towards this. There was pressure of Bollywood to bring me on right part."
The 27-year-old actress now eats and sleeps well.
"I am fit now. People need to be fit no matter what size they are. I was big and unfit. There are dancers in New York who are big but flexible. It took me a year-and-half to reach here."
The "Daawat-e-Ishq" actress was away from the screen for quite sometime and now post her weight-loss break, she is all charged up.
"Of course, I missed (being on screen). When I entered the film industry I did four films back-to-back as everyone was used to seeing me on screen. I am not filmy as these (star kids) guys. I come from a different discipline and I have lived my life in a different way. I needed that emotional break. I wanted to settle down."
Parineeti feels the break helped her sort out her priorities.
"It's a different world for me. I come from a world of banking and academics and I had to be in front of camera all the time and had the pressure. I just wanted to sort out some things."
The "Hasee Toh Phasee" actress is glad that she can wear better clothes now.
"Now I have this dedication and concentration on my work because of the break. I wanted to work on my body, I am 27 years old. I wanted to wear shorts and better clothes and not worry about anything. This one year break was amazing."
