Deepika Padukone named Best Actress at IIFA 2016 ||||
 Actress Deepika Padukone won the Best Actress award for her role in 'Piku' at the 17th IIFA Awards held in Spain on Saturday. Deepika bagged her first IIFA award in 2008 for the film 'Om Shanti Om' in the Best Female Debut category. She has won five IIFA awards since then, including the Woman of the Year Award in 2015. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c9e60182-4618-4a4f-a79e-ec2501009a89-1||||
Bollywood stars Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh on Saturday night bagged the Best Actor (Female) and Best Actor (Male) trophy at the 17th IIFA extravaganza for their performance in Piku and Bajirao Mastani respectively.
Sanjay Leela Bhansali won the Best Director for Bajirao Mastani and “Bajrangi Bhaijaan” was named the Best Film at a glittering ceremony here.
See Pics: IIFA 2016 Winners: Deepika Padukone, Ranveer Singh, Bajirao Mastani Bag Top honours
The main awards night of the International Indian Film Academy (IIFA) celebrations saw a melange of tinsel town celebrities all decked up to soak in the colours, magic and revelry that Bollywood exudes. There were performances, humourous acts and an entertaining anchoring job by Shahid Kapoor and Farhan Akhtar, who made a quirky entry on donkeys.
In the Best Actor in Supporting Role category, Anil Kapoor won the award among men for “Dil Dhadakne Do”, and Priyanka Chopra among the women clinched the honour for “Bajirao Mastani”.
Also read: IIFA  2016: With Dil Dhadakne Do nomination and Mirzya trailer release, special IIFA for Anil Kapoor
Priyanka — who has scaled international presence with her role in American TV series “Quantico” and has also landed a part in Hollywood film “Baywatch” — was bestowed a Special Award: Woman of the Year.
The multi-talented actress also took to the stage and performed on songs that she has voiced herself.
“Bajirao Mastani” emerged as the big winner. Apart from Bhansali and Ranveer’s accolades, the film won Best Cinematography (Sudeep Chatterjee), Best Production Design (Saloni Dhatrak, Sriram Iyengar, Sujeet Sawant), Best Choreography (Remo D’souza for “Pinga”), Best Action (Shyam Kaushal) and Best Sound Design (Bishwadeep Chatterjee and Nihar Ranjal Samal).
There were more awards for the movie: Best Background Score (Sanchit Balhara), Best Special Effects (Prasad Sutara), Best Costume Designing (Anju Modi and Maxima Basu) and Best Song Engineer (Tanay Gajjar for “Deewani Mastani”.
Among the debutants, Vicky Kaushal took home the laurels for “Masaan” and among the ladies, Bhumi Pednekar won it for her endearing performance in “Dum Laga Ke Haisha”.
The Jodi of the Year Award went to Sooraj Pancholi and Athiya Shetty for “Hero” at the event which also saw Sonakshi Sinha, Deepika and Tiger Shroff take to the stage for mesmerising performances.
Tiger, a flexible dancer, paid a tribute to late King of Pop Michael Jackson with his moves.
Darshan Kumar was awarded for his negative role in “NH10”, and Deepak Dobriyal was honoured for Best Comic Role in “Tanu Weds Manu Returns”.
Amitabh Bachhan and Deepika starrer “Piku” got the Best Story and Best Dialogue Awards for Juhi Chaturvedi.
Also read: IIFA 2016: When Shahid, Farhan aka Raju, Pappu hit the green carpet on donkeys
In the singing category, the mellifluos song “Moh moh ke dhaage” was a winner. Monali Thakur and Papon won the Best Playback Singer (Female) and Best Playback Singer (Male) for the track, while Varun Grover won for penning its lyrics.
The Best Screenplay went to Kabir Khan, Parveez Shaikh, V. Vijayendra Prasad for “Bajrangi Bhaijaan”, Best Editing (A Sreekar Prasad for “Talvar”), Best Sound Mixing (Ajay Kumar PB for “Badlapur”) and Best Make-up (Vikram Gaikwad for Datto in “Tanu Weds Manu Returns”)
The four-day gala — which celebrates the magic of Indian cinema at an international destination every year — began on June 23. Madrid is the fourth European destination to host the IIFA.
