I want my script in Hindi only: Manoj Bajpayee ||||
 Bollywood actor Manoj Bajpayee said today at the Lit-O-Fest that he only reads his scripts typed in Hindi. Calling Hindi language his 'strength', Bajpayee added, "I am very passionate about the Hindi language... The day I realised I am in a position to make demands, I decided not to read any directors script if it is not typed in Hindi." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/27958251-0011-0002-2662-000012345678||||
National Award-winning actor Manoj Bajpayee, who has portrayed the life of gay professor Shrinivas Ramchandra Siras in the upcoming film “Aligarh”, says he doesn’t read a script if is it is not written in Hindi.
“I am very passionate about Hindi language. ‘Satya’ made me a commercially successful actor. After that I slowly started getting work in this industry. The day I realised I am in a position to make demands, I decided not to read any director’s script if it is not typed in Hindi. I am stubborn on this issue,” Manoj said at the Lit-O-Fest, a literature festival, here.
Manoj also said that the Hindi language is his “strength”.
“People are often sluggish to find a Hindi typist. Although I stick to point that if they want me to read the script, it must be in Hindi. Once a producer or director gave excuse of other actors, I told him that it is not my lookout if they do not know Hindi well. Hindi language is my strength. I want my script in Hindi only,” he added.
The “Shool” actor said that he believes in encouraging literary work in Hindi and feels literary festivals should be organised frequently.
Giving an example of megastar of Amitabh Bachchan, he said: “Amit ji is a big admirer and supporter of his father Harivansh Rai Bachchan’s work. He always attempts to bring Harivanshji’s work in public in different ways. So it is our responsibility to inspire Hindi writers and poets because they are hugely contributing to make our Hindi culture rich.”
On the work front, Manoj is gearing up for the release of Hansal Mehta’s film “Aligarh”, which is based on the real life incident of Dr. Srinivas Ramchandra Siras, who was suspended from his job because of his sexual orientation.
“Aligarh” will release on Friday.
