Nirankari mission gets its 1st woman head ||||
 Late spiritual leader Baba Hardev Singh's wife Savinder Kaur became the first woman head of the Nirankari mission on Thursday. Following the demise of the spiritual leader, who was the head of the mission, in an accident in Canada on May 13, this announcement was made by the organisation's headquarters in Delhi. The Nirankari mission was formed in 1929. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0cbe15ab-3df2-4633-a556-fa79d56fe502-1||||
AFTER THE death of Nirankari sect head Baba Hardev Singh, his wife Savinder Kaur has become the fifth sect head and the first woman to head the Nirankari mission, which was formed in 1929.
An announcement in this regard was made Thursday at the Nirankari Mission’s headquarters in New Delhi.
Devotees from Punjab turned up in large numbers to get a last glimpse of Baba Hardev Singh. The devotees, who are in shock over the sudden death of Baba Hardev Singh in a car crash in Canada, have accepted his wife as the next sect head. Indu Bala, a follower of this mission and resident of Dugri area of Ludhiana said, “There was never a succession war in Nirankari mission and devotees have always accepted the decisions of the headquarters. Although Mata Savinder was always seen with Baba Hardev during his Punjab visits, we have never heard spiritual speeches from her. We are looking forward to hear her soon. Making a woman the sect head sends a positive message that the mission believes in equality.”
Bhagwan Das from Khanna and Ram Gopal from Aalowal village in Mandi Gobindgarh, who went to Delhi to attend the cremation, added, “We have heard Mata Savinder Kaur at Delhi’s Satsang Hall once. Now we will hear her at various places across the country and abroad. Devotees are looking forward to the new sect head’s Ludhiana visit.”
Nagrup Singh and Gursharan Singh, followers of the mission, said, “We have always seen Mata Savinder Kaur sitting on the right side of Babaji… This indicates that he sought equal respect for her from followers.”
Suvinder Kaur hails from Farooqabad district of Uttar Pradesh and married Baba Hardev Singh in 1975. They have three daughters. One of Baba Hardev Singh’s son-in-law was also killed in the crash. Devotees said Savinder Kaur, after being declared as successor, had urged the followers to live in harmony and follow the path of spirituality.
