Governor urges Barua to make film on Arunachal ||||
 Arunachal Pradesh Governor JP Rajkhowa on Thursday urged national award-winning filmmaker Jahnu Barua to make a film showcasing the state's cultural diversity and tradition by involving local artistes. The governor also requested the filmmaker to take up the issue of opium cultivation. "A message should go to the people of its ill effects," said Rajkhowa. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/64520054-0006-0002-2056-000012345678||||
Arunachal Pradesh Governor J.P. Rajkhowa on Thursday (February 18) asked national award-winning filmmaker Jahnu Barua to make a film on the cultural diversity and traditions of the state.
“Arunachal Pradesh is a treasure trove of cultural diversity and traditions. Each tribe, being unique, provides a magnificent bulk of stories and subjects. In a way, every day there is a festival, reflecting the vibrant culture of the State,” Rajkhowa told Barua.
The governor also informed Barua that the subject of opium cultivation needs to be highlighted among the masses.
“A message should go to the people of its ill effects. You should script a story on this disturbing subject in the interest of the people of the state,” Rajkhowa requested Barua, and promised all support including logistics for such projects.
He urged Barua to make a film involving artistes from Arunachal Pradesh and Assam.
Rajkhowa said he has never missed a film by Barua, and asked him to organise a workshop to train budding artistes and upcoming film producers.
“The young people of Arunachal Pradesh have tremendous talent in acting, singing and music… that too without any assistance from the government or any theatre institute. With a little direction, they will surely shine in all fields of cinematography,” the governor said.
On her part, the governor’s wife Rita Rajkhowa suggested films based on social issues and women, to sensitise and motivate the fairer sex to stand up for their rights.
Barua said he will try to harness the potential of Arunachal Pradesh in the field of cinematography.
“There are a lot of subjects to tell. The youth of the state should take up this responsibility send a message to the world through good films. I will always be there to guide and mentor you,” he assured.
