'Traitor' Rahul Gandhi should be hanged: BJP MLA ||||
 Kailash Chaudhary, a BJP MLA from Rajasthan has said that Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi should be hanged or shot. He called Gandhi a 'traitor' for standing with anti-national students at Delhis Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). Chaudhary further demanded an apology from Gandhi for the same along with seeking his resignation. The state Congress later asked for Chaudhary's suspension. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/79537668-0007-0002-1893-000012345678||||
A BJP MLA from Rajasthan has called Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi a “traitor” and said he should be “hanged” and “shot” for siding with “anti-national” students at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU).
Kailash Chaudhary, the MLA from Barmer’s Baytoo constituency, also demanded an apology from the Congress
vice-president and sought his resignation.
At a farmers’ gathering in his constituency on Wednesday, the MLA said, “Some people…raised slogans praising Afzal Guru, about breaking India and of Pakistan Zindabad…and if Rahul Gandhi, who is called the Congress’ rajkumar, goes and sides with these people…stands with them and supports them…it is treason.”
“Rahul Gandhi is a traitor…such a traitor should be punished…should be hanged …and shot,” he added. The video recording of the MLAs speech was widely circulated on Whatsapp and other social media platforms.
Chaudhary admitted to having made the remarks. “Yes, I said it. If he goes and supports such anti-national people…he should be shot. I am a nationalist and if anyone raises a finger at Bharat Mata, I will not tolerate it,” he told The Indian Express.
Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee president Sachin Pilot said it exposed the “BJP’s real character”. Calling it a criminal act, he demanded that the BJP immediately suspend the MLA and initiate legal proceedings.
Case against Rahul
A court in Allahabad registered a complaint case against Rahul Gandhi based on a petition filed by a lawyer who has sought directions to authorities to book the Congress vice-president on sedition charges “for supporting anti-national elements” by holding a meeting on JNU campus.
