Jats hold talks with H'yana govt amid quota stir ||||
 Jat leaders on Friday held talks with the Haryana government, amid the ongoing quota stir. Jats demanded the withdrawal of "false cases" against youths, and compensation to the kin of those who died in the protests in February. The state government agreed to "most of the demands" and assured they are "fighting" against the High Court's stay on the reservation. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/11724516-7bcc-4172-a3e9-0636f8f11182-1||||
Chandigarh, Jun 17 (PTI) On 13th day of their fresh pro-quota stir, some Jat leaders, accompanied by Khap representatives, held talks with Haryana government today and demanded withdrawal of "false cases" registered against youths in connection with the February stir and adequate compensation for the relatives of those who had died.
Among the participants in Panchkula talks were Sube Singh Samain, Sarv Khap Jat Panchayat spokesperson, its senior leader Nafe Singh Nain, Tek Chand Kandela of the Kandela Khap and Jat leader Hawa Singh Sangwan.
State Agriculture Minister O P Dhankar and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's political advisor Jagdish Chopra, talked to them from the government side.
The main demand raised in the meeting was release of "innocent youths" arrested during February stir and adequate compensation and job to next of kin of those who lost their lives in the recent stir.
Dhankar told the leaders the government is fighting against the high court stay on reservation granted by it and assured their other demands would be considered in a "sympathetic manner".
All India Jat Arakshan Sangarsh Samiti (AIJASS), which is spearheading the stir, has been invited for talks with state government representatives in Delhi tomorrow.
"We are meeting them in Delhi tomorrow," AIJASS president Yashpal Malik said.
Meanwhile, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said this is a "social issue and it should not be politicised".
Khattar, who was in Rohtak today, said as the reservation issue is under the consideration of the court, all would have to unitedly plea to make it reach the desired conclusion.
However, it is the responsibility of the government to get it resolved, he added.
