Users spending 43 mins per day on Pokemon Go app ||||
 The average time spent by the users on Pokemon Go app has reached 43 minutes and 23 seconds a day, according to UK-based web analytics company SimilarWeb. It's higher than the time spent by the users on apps like WhatsApp, Instagram, Snapchat and Facebook Messenger. The game's APK file providing website 'apkmirror' has crossed 4 million hits led by Brazil. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d12c393c-d9b5-4844-9382-e2bc994f10f6-1||||
Pokémon GO, which is yet to launch globally, has crossed all records when it comes to daily engagement and app installs. Pokémon GO might be days old, but the app is already beating established players like Twitter, Tinder, according to data from SimilarWeb.
The app has only been launched in Australia, US, and New Zealand, but the world is playing this game thanks to APK files and side installs.
A blogpost by SimilarWeb shows Pokémon GO is already installed on 5.16 per cent of all Android devices in the US, and has crossed Tinder when it comes to install base on Android.
“Pokémon GO is killing it” on Daily Active Users (DAUs) with 60 per cent of those who downloaded the game using it daily.  Data shows the app is close to Twitter on DAUs, and the analytics website predicts Pokémon GO will cross Twitter’s DAUs in some days, which shows the power of this game.
But the real punch with Pokémon GO, according to SimilarWeb, is time spent on the app. The average time spent is: 43 minutes, 23 seconds a day. According to SimilarWeb, this number is higher than what it is for apps like Whatsapp, Instagram, Snapchat, and Facebook Messenger.  Clearly adults in the US are spending way too much time on Pokémon GO.


And thanks to the downloads via side-loading and APK files, Pokémon GO has ensured that traffic to apkmirror.com crossed 4 million. SimilarWeb says this traffic is coming from across the world with Brazil leading the pack.
Pokémon GO madness to ‘catch ’em all’ has spread as news reports show. Apparently in the US, teens even lured four victims to a lone spot thanks to the Pokémon game, as they knew people would come to the spot looking for the ‘pokémons.’
The augmented-reality game with geo-caching, directs users to certain spots in their quest for Pokémons. SimilarWeb data confirms one thing for sure: Even though a global launch is yet to take place, everyone appears to be playing Pokémon GO.
