Maharashtra districts get own disaster plans ||||
 The Maharashtra government has reportedly prepared disaster management plans for all 36 districts in the state amid predictions of 'above normal' monsoon by the MeT department. The plans deal with emergency measures to be taken during heavy rains, flash floods, landslides and lightning strikes, an official said. The plans also include population and other macro details of the districts. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/50c09456-6267-4720-8ccf-59694cf56291-1||||
Mumbai, Jun 24 (PTI) In anticipation of an 'above normal' monsoon prediction by IMD this year, the Maharashtra government has ensured that all 36 districts in the state have their own disaster management plans.
The plan deals extensively with the emergency and evacuation measures to be taken up in cases of heavy downpour, flash floods, landslides, lightning strikes and other natural calamities, state Disaster Management Department Director Sunil Diwase said.
"The district-level disaster management plan has detailed information about geographical details, population, flood-prone areas, villages and other macro details," he said.
Diwase said the plans have well laid down standard operation procedures for departments and agencies like revenue, agriculture, animal husbandry, police, paramilitary, Army, district administration, local civic administration and others.
Nearly 14 such key departments are engaged in disaster mitigation measures and each one has been assigned specific tasks to do at times of natural disasters.
Diwase said the administration is now training master trainers at the district level who in-turn will train key persons at village and taluka levels to deal with natural disasters.
"The administration through radio jingles, public advertisements and other measures is informing people about how to react at times of lightning strike, flood, hot weather conditions and other natural calamities," he said.
After issuing alerts, it is incumbent upon the people to take necessary precautions, he further said.
