Ram Temple will be built during my life: Bhagwat ||||
 At a tribute programme for two kar sevak brothers who were killed in police shootout at Ayodhya in 1990, Rashtriya Swayam Sevak chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday said, "Ram temple will be built within my lifetime". Reiterating that "we need to be prepared and ready, Bhagwat said a mix of "passion and sanity" will ensure that the work is completed. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/28642367-0007-0012-0600-000012345678||||
Expressing hope that the proposed Ram temple will be built at Ayodhya in his lifetime, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat Wednesday said it needs a careful planning.
“The temple will be built within my lifetime…May be, we will see it with our own eyes. None can say when and how the temple will be constructed, but we need to be prepared and ready,” Bhagwat said.
He was addressing a programme to pay tributes to brothers Ram Kothari and Sharad Kothari who were killed in police firing while performing “symbolic” kar seva at Ayodhya in 1990, two years before the Babri Masjid was demolished.
“We need to plan it carefully. A good mix of ‘josh’ (passion) and ‘hosh’ (sanity) is needed to complete the work which Ram and Sharad had initiated,” Bhagwat said, adding that the temple will only be built in Ayodhya as it was the birth place of Lord Ram.
“Terrorists had attacked the World Trade Centre in the USA as it was a symbol of that country’s economic strength. Similarly, the Ram temple in Ayodhya was attacked several times earlier as it symbolised our culture. We couldn’t do anything then because we were weak. But now, work needs to be done,” he added.
Describing Indian culture as the one “which accepts all and believes in taking everyone together,” Bhagwat said, “We talk about unity in diversity. That is Indian culture”.
Asserting there is no place for extremism in religion he said, “religion does not teach us extremism. It shows us the middle path to accept and move together with everyone”.
Tripura Governor Tathagata Roy, who shared the stage with Bhagwat, compared Ram and Sharad with martyrs Khudiram Bose, Kanailal Dutta and Charu Basu. “They laid down their lives for their principles in life and not for any hope of getting an award by the almighty in their next lives,” Roy said.
