Learn waste management from foreign cities: HC ||||
 The Delhi High Court has asked the civic bodies to examine and adopt procedures used in foreign countries like Paris and Stockholm to tackle the capital's waste management problem. It doesnt mean you send study groups of MPs, MLAs, and councillors to these cities. You can study this via the internet, the court added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ebb9ef7e-e29c-4ba5-9194-24ed6dac1d2e-1||||
The Delhi High court Thursday asked civic bodies in the city to “examine and adopt procedures” used in other countries to tackle the problem of garbage and encourage segregation of various types of waste to ensure recycling and proper waste management.
The court cited examples of waste management techniques used in cities such as Paris and Stockholm. “It doesn’t mean you send study groups of MPs, MLAs, and councillors to these cities. You can study this via the internet,” commented the bench of Justice Badar Durrez Ahmed and Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva.
The court’s suggestion came after amicus curiae, senior advocate Kailash Vasdev, said the three main landfills in the capital — at Bhalswa, Ghazipur and Okhla — were “full beyond capacity”. The court was also informed there were frequent fires at the landfills due to emission of methane and carbon dioxide from the decomposing biodegradable waste.
“At these landfill sites, there are emissions of noxious gases, including carbon dioxide and methane,” noted the court, adding that the lack of proper waste management led to air pollution as well as groundwater contamination in the areas nearby. “Frequent fires at the landfills create serious problem of air pollution,” said the court.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
 
The court said segregation of garbage into biodegradable and recyclable waste was “an immediate need” so that plastic and metallic waste could be recycled, while energy and compost could be created using biodegradable household and kitchen waste. The directions were issued while hearing a PIL on the issue of air pollution in the capital.
 
 
 
