Guj govt to drop 236 more cases against Patidars ||||
 The Gujarat government on Sunday announced the withdrawal of 236 more criminal cases related to last year's Patidar reservation protests. With this, the government has withdrawn 90% of the 438 cases in connection with the quota stir. The government statement, however, does not specify the cases that would be withdrawn and who all would benefit from it. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c18d22d9-cd6b-4329-be09-6cf5d3372a18-1||||
The BJP government in Gujarat Sunday announced to withdraw 236 criminal cases related to the last year’s Patidar quota agitation. The government had already withdrawn 155 cases against the Patidars. With the latest announcement, 90 per cent of the 438 cases registered in connection with the quota agitation have been taken back.
Taking a swipe at the BJP government, AAP convenor and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “This means guj govt agrees that all cases were false. So, are cases against Hardik also being withdrawn?”
The Gujarat government in its press release did not specify the cases that would be dropped and who will benefit from it.
Patidar quota agitation leader Hardik Patel and his associates have been booked for alleged sedition, while several cases of murder, attempted murder, dacoity were registered against members of the community following the last year’s events.
A close aide of Hardik, Dinesh Bambhaniya, who has been charged with a sedition case in Ahmedabad, said, “This is the third time that the government is making such an announcement. But, they are not making it clear which cases they are going to withdraw. If, they are serious, they should give FIR number of each case that they want to withdraw along with the list of the accused persons.”
Watch Video: What’s making news 
“Also, what is their stand on sedition cases and other serious cases of murder and dacoity against the Patidars?” he asked.
According to the press statement, the government had promised to review criminal cases registered against members of the Patidar community and as part of its promise, Chief Minister Anandiben Patel held several meeting on the issue — the latest on July 29 when it was decided to withdraw 90 per cent of cases related to quota agitation.
 
