Raj Babbar named Uttar Pradesh Congress chief ||||
 Former actor and Rajya Sabha MP Raj Babbar was on Tuesday appointed the new President of the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) and Rajesh Mishra was named the committee's Vice President. Making the announcement, party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad added that there will "surely" be a Chief Ministerial candidate from the party for the 2017 state assembly election. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2bdfa36a-aea6-4a33-ac40-b40570196a38-1||||
Senior Congress leader Raj Babbar was on Tuesday appointed as the party’s UP chief ahead of next year’s assembly polls in the state.
Four senior vice presidents, including Imran Masood, who had courted controversy a few years ago with his hate speech against BJP’s prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi in 2014, were also appointed.
The announcement was made by party general secretaries Ghulam Nabi Azad and Janardan Dwivedi at a press conference at the AICC headquarters.
Babbar (64), born in Tundla near Agra in UP, belongs to the Viswabrahmin community which is considered an OBC. He has been a three-time Lok Sabha member and is currently a Rajya Sabha member from Uttarakhand. He was a Rajya Sabha member earlier also.
“Congress President Sonia Gandhi has appointed Raj Babbar as new president of Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee, along with four senior vice presidents,” Dwivedi said.
The new senior vice pressidents are Rajaram Pal, a backward, Rajesh Mishra, a Brahmin, and Bhagwati Prasad Chaudhary, a Dalit, besides Imran Masood, a minority.
The outgoing UP Congress chief Nirmal Khatra has been made the chairman of the state screening committe.
Azad later said that Babbar is “above caste” and has an appeal across the country.
Azad, however, refused to announce party’s chief minister face in Uttar Pradesh, where elections will take place next year.
Azad was also non committal on Priyanka Gandhi having a larger role during the campaigning in the state, saying the election dates have not yet been announced.
He accepted that there have been demands that she campaign for the party beyond Amethi and Rae Bareli, where she usually limits herself to.
Earlier in the day, Priyanka met Azad triggering wide speculations.
(With inputs from PTI)
