Sanjeev Kapoor may create Navodaya schools' menu ||||
 Chef Sanjeev Kapoor has been approached to prepare the menu of food to be served at all Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas and train cooks of the residential schools, said HRD Minister Smriti Irani. The ministry wants to do something special for the Navodaya students and match the quality of food served in JNVs with that in top residential schools, she added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ecf72831-dca2-49b8-a2f0-bd5896fc5486-1||||
Renowned chef Sanjeev Kapoor has been approached to prepare menu for residential Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) across the country, and also train cooks there, said Minister for Human Resource Development Smriti Irani on Monday.
“We want to do something special for these (JNVs) students who come from normal families, and I wish to match the quality of food served in JNVs with that in top residential schools. For this, we have requested chef Sanjeev Kapoor to prepare menu of every JNV and also train their cooks,” said Irani.
She was in Ahmedabad to lay foundation stone of a JNV at Hathijan village.
The minister also announced that students pursuing higher studies would be allowed to take maternity leave, while women and physically handicapped students would get more time to complete their PhD. “We have seen that girls pursuing higher studies could not complete their course due to family obligations. Under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has launched Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign, the MHRD has announced that girls and physically handicapped students will be given additional time to complete PhD. Women pursuing higher education will be allowed for maternity leave ,” she stated.
The event was also attended by Gujarat Law minister Pradipsinh Jadeja, Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and Ahmedabad East MP Paresh Rawal.
Irani further said separate toilets for girls have been constructed at all government schools within one year.
For economically weaker sections, she said, “We have already exempted SC/ST and Divyang students from paying fee in IITs, and have also exempted entire fee for those students whose family income is below Rs 1 lakh.”
 
