RJD issues show-cause notice against Taslimuddin ||||
 In response to his statements against Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, RJD on Sunday issued a show-cause notice to party MP Mohammed Taslimuddin. This comes after JD(U) requested RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav to take action against Taslimuddin for speaking against the Bihar CM. Taslimuddin had recently criticised Nitish Kumar and urged Yadav to end the RJD-JD(U) alliance in Bihar. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a4781556-bae9-4c89-9883-5c3fbf7e28ce-1||||
Patna, May 22 (PTI) RJD today issued a show-cause notice to its Araria Lok Sabha MP Mohammad Taslimuddin for making statements against Chief Minister Nitish Kumar.
"The party has issued show cause notice to Taslimuddin," RJD state unit president Ramchandra Purbe told PTI.
Purbe, however, did not specify the time-frame within which Taslimuddin has to reply.
He also refused to answer whether any show-cause notice has been given to senior RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who too has been critical of the Chief Minister.
RJD sources said the controversial statements were indirectly helping BJP.
The party's decision assumes significance in the backdrop of the fact that its ally JD(U) yesterday took strong exception to the statements made by Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and Taslimuddin and demanded action against both leaders.
"We have requested RJD boss Lalu Prasad jee to take action against both Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and Mohammad Taslimuddin. Either these leaders should be kept under control or be suspended (from the party)," JD(U) chief spokesman Sanjay Singh had said.
Taslimuddin had trained his gun once again at the Nitish Kumar government yesterday, urging the RJD boss to snap ties with JD(U).
He had said the chief minister should first set things in order in Bihar before undertaking a nation-wide campaign on prohibition.
Soon after the meeting of the state and central parliamentary board of RJD here Friday, both Raghuvansh and Taslimuddin had attacked the Nitish Kumar government.
The Araria MP had said that Nitish Kumar should quit as he has failed to handle the law and order situation.
