Kerala announces pension scheme for transgenders ||||
 The Left Democratic Front government in Kerala on Friday announced a pension scheme, starting this year, for transgenders above 60 years of age. It also announced special education aid for transgender students. Only last year, Kerala became the first state in India to announce a Transgender Welfare Board that aims to end stigma towards the sexual minority group. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/477aa65b-5dfd-45f8-a6c9-8a9c8c2f3bd4-1||||
In what could be seen as a continuation of the affirmative policy of the previous UDF government towards transgenders, the ruling LDF regime has announced plans to allot pension for those above the age of 60.
Finance Minister Thomas Isaac, while presenting the budget, announced the decision today in the Assembly and reaffirmed his government’s commitment to protect the rights of the community. The minister however did not specify what the pension amount would be.
Last year, Kerala had become the first state in the country to reveal a Transgender Policy, that promised to end the stigma towards the sexual minority group.
The policy covers all the categories of transgenders, including male to female transgenders and intersex people. It also emphasises the rights of the minority group to self identify themselves as man, woman or TG as stated in the Supreme Court judgement.
A survey had estimated that there are at least 25,000 transgender persons in Kerala, a majority of whom drop out of schools and colleges due to heavy stigma and oppression. 89 per cent of transgenders interviewed for the survey said they have been mistreated at work site and 28% said they were sexually harassed or raped by partners within the last one year.
The policy aims to ensures equal access to social and economic opportunities, resources and services, right to equal treatment under the law, right to live life without violence and equitable right in all decision making bodies.
It also recommends the setting up of a TG Justice Board with state Minister for Social Justice as its chairperson.
The body will monitor and oversee the implementation of the policy and have Social Justice secretary as its Member-Secretary and secretaries of various departments as members.
(With PTI inputs)
