I am not pregnant or engaged: Deepika ||||
 Reacting to rumours about her marriage, Deepika Padukone said, "There is no such plan anytime soon. I am not pregnant, I am not engaged, I am not married". Further, she said, "I am not planning to get married anytime soon." Earlier, reports claimed that the 30-year old actress has been secretly engaged to Ranveer Singh. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/06bc7e42-e5dc-402f-803c-8526eb09ad26-1||||
Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh are getting married? Are Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh already engaged? Have Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh’s families already met each other and had a roka?
These were just a few of the rumours that xXx: the return of Xander cage star has been plagued with last one month. Ranveer Singh was asked this point blank when he landed in India after wrapping up Befikre in Paris a few days ago.
The Bajirao Mastani actress, who walked as the showstopper for designer Manish Malhotra’s collection at FDCI India Couture Week 2016, said this was the “right opportunity to clarify”.
“I think this is the right opportunity for me to clarify. There is no such plan anytime soon. I am not pregnant, I am not engaged, I am not married. I am not planning to get married anytime soon,” Deepika told reporters here.
Read: Are Deepika Padukone, Ranveer Singh getting married? This is what Ranveer said 
Talking about the showstopper outfit she was donning, Deepika said: “Every bride wants to look her best on her wedding day and whenever I do…”
On the work front, Deepika will soon be seen in the international film xXx: Return Of Xander Cage starring Vin Diesel.
See Pics: Deepika Padukone, Marry Ranveer Singh Already. Just Look At These Pics Of his!
Her barely-there appearance in the first teaser-trailer of her Hollywood debut xXx: The Return of Xander Cage may have left fans disappointed but actress Deepika Padukone has assured that there is more to be unveiled in the coming days.
The 1 minute 24 seconds teaser video of the film, which was released yesterday, was dominated by Vin Diesel, Samuel L Jackson and features Deepika wielding a gun and spinning a blade in not more than three shots.
