IIT profs to give lectures via 4 DTH channels ||||
 Professors of six IITs Bombay, Madras, Delhi, Kharagpur, Kanpur, and Guwahati are set to give video lectures to engineering aspirants via four DTH channels. The students can watch these channels for free of charge through Doordarshan's Free Dish DTH and will only need to get a set-top box. The service will be launched by PM Narendra Modi on August 15. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/7a48ea71-a663-4821-9dcb-900e8a71766c-1||||
Taking the concept of Digital India to another level, various professors from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) will soon be providing coaching classes to engineering aspirants through four DTH channels.
These channels will be available free of cost through Doordarshan's Free Dish DTH platform, and the aspirants will only have to secure a Set-Top Box to watch these channels.
FOR RURAL ASPIRANTS ALSO
The initiative will be launched by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15. The move will not only reduce dependence on coaching centres but will also reach out to the students who are living in rural areas and cannot afford to pay the fee for expensive crash courses.
VIDEO LECTURES ALSO A PART OF THE INITIATIVE
These video lectures will be compiled by top professors of the six IITs - Bombay, Madras, Delhi, Kharagpur, Kanpur, and Guwahati. The Department of Space has agreed to allocate two transponders on a GSAT series satellite to telecast it live across the channels. "The professors, teaching aspirants through the four DTH channels, will cover the entire syllabus of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE). There will be a link on Youtube too," Prof V Ramgopal Rao, director, IIT-Delhi, told Mail Today.
DESIGNED FOR JEE ASPIRANTS
The IIT-Delhi is coordinating the entire programme. The Ministry for Human Resource and Development (MHRD) has already made all necessary arrangements. According to experts, the aim is to provide information without losing the concept of JEE syllabus.
MHRD's initiatives to introduce DTH learning and mobile app-based learning will help JEE aspirants to a great extent. The HRD ministry is already working on a plan to create an IITPal app which would have free high quality study material in 11 languages including English, Hindi, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Odiya, Kannada, Malyalam, Marathi, Gujarati and Punjabi. Also, the top 100 students who have scored well in JEE will be involved in the programme to provide assistance to professors.
"These students will act as assistant professors and prepare a module on which the professors will work," added Prof Rao.
Also Read: IIT Kharagpur is hiring, apply now for various posts
