Himachal CM summoned by ED over money laundering ||||
 Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday sent notice to Himachal Pradesh CM Virbhadra Singh over alleged money laundering, asking him to appear for questioning at New Delhi in the first week of December. "The Centre is misusing ED and CBI to fabricate cases against me," Singh said. "This is an old matter being played up unnecessarily in the media," he added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/27392956-0012-0011-9914-000012345678||||
Probing money laundering charges against him, Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sent notice to Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh seeking his presence for questioning in New Delhi. A case has already been registered in New Delhi against him and family members, including wife Pratibha Singh, a former MP.
The Chief Minister has been asked to appear before the investigating officer in the first week of December 2015, sources said.
When contacted, Virbhadra confirmed having received the notice which will be replied by his lawyers. “The Centre is misusing the agencies like ED and CBI to fabricate cases against me. This is an old matter which was being unnecessarily played up in the media,” he said.
Sources close to Virbhadra, however, said the CM may seek time from the ED on the grounds that the state assembly would be in session from November 30.
The agency has already conducted searches in West Bengal , Maharashtra and Delhi against the companies which had financial dealings with firms of Delhi businessman Vakamulla Chandrashekhar. Chandrashekhar had given easy loans to Virbhadra, his wife and son Vikramaditya Singh.
Vikramaditya is also the state Youth Congress president and has a company M/s Maple Destinations and Dream Build Private Limited, which had dealings with Vakamulla Chandrashekhar.
The money laundering case against Chief Minister is primarily an off-shoot of CBI’s Disproportionate Assets (DA) case filed against him in September 2015 alleging that he had tried to legitimise Rs 6.03 crore by revising his income tax returns for three years – 2008 to 2012 – and also invested more than Rs 5 crores in LIC policies through Anand Chauhan, a local LIC agent, who had also signed an MOU with the CM to manage his orchard.
ED officials have already quizzed Chauhan and a fruit wholesaler Chunni Lal in connection with the case and expected to summon more persons linked with the case in next 10 days.
The ED had registered the money laundering case in Delhi even as its preliminary investigations were done in Shimla. But after allegations of pressures on police, ED shifted the probe to Delhi.
Virbhadra Singh also has a case listed in Delhi High Court on December 3 pertaining to a PIL filed against him seeking a CBI probe into corruption charges against him during his term as Union Minister for Steel during 2009-2012. Besides CBI and ED cases, Virbhadra Singh is also facing investigations by the Income Tax department into his revised tax returns showing orchard income to Rs 6 crores against Rs 47.35 lakh.
Apprehending ED raids, the Shimla police on Thursday stepped up security around the Chief Minister’s residence Holly Lodge.
 
