Minister-IPS spat: SC/ST commission seeks report ||||
 The National Commission for Scheduled Caste has sent a notice seeking a detailed report from the Haryana government on the recent verbal spat between the Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij and the Dalit IPS officer Sangeeta Kalia. The commission has also said that it might file a criminal case against the minister if his explanation is not found satisfactory. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/73620322-0005-0011-0083-000012345678||||
HARYANA’S SC/ST Commission has sought a “detailed report” from the state government on a verbal exchange between Health Minister Anil Vij and a Dalit woman IPS officer during a public interaction on Friday, a panel member told The Sunday Express.
Sangeeta Rani Kalia, SP of Fatehabad, was transferred and appointed as Commandant 4th IRB at Manesar on Saturday after she refused to leave a meeting despite being asked to “get out” by the minister who was irked by her response to a query on illicit liquor trade in the area.
Vij subsequently stormed out of the District Grievances and Public Relations Committee meeting in Fatehabad.
The commission warned in a notice sent to the government that it may register a criminal case against the minister if it did not get a satisfactory explanation on his behaviour, said Ishwar Singh, member, SC/ST Commission, Haryana.
“We have issued a notice to the Haryana Chief Secretary and asked him to submit a detailed report on the issue within seven days. If a person belonging to the Dalit community is humiliated in public, it attracts punishment under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Anil Vij asked a Dalit officer to “get out” from a grievance redressal committee meeting. If it is not a humiliation, what else is it?” said Singh.
“We have taken a stern view of the issue. If we are not satisfied with his reply, we may register a criminal case against Anil Vij,” he said.
Sources told The Sunday Express that the transfer order was issued by the Home Department, which comes under Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, after Vij insisted that action be taken against the 2009-batch officer. Kalia was replaced by Om Prakash as Fatehabad SP.
While Kalia refused to comment, Vij said on Saturday that he shall continue his “struggle against the ineffective officers in the administration”.
Vij tweeted on his official twitter handle: “I shall always be ready to get justice to people who were administration’s harassment victims. I am ready to pay any price or make any sacrifice for that.”
The transfer drew sharp reactions from the Opposition while senior IAS and IPS officers in the state appeared divided with some criticising the shift and others saying Kalia should not have engaged in a spat with the minister.
Objecting to the transfer, the IPS (Central) Association posted on its official twitter handle: “We expect IPS officers to be treated with dignity when they uphold law. In solidarity with Sangeeta Kalia; salute her courage.”
ADGP B S Sandhu, head of the Haryana IPS Officers Association, said, “We have called for a meeting of our officers on Sunday and will discuss the issue.”
Kalia is the daughter of Dharam Pal, who retired as a painter in Haryana police in 2010, the same year she joined the force after earning the IPS rank in the third attempt. Pal used to paint the walls of police buildings in Fatehabad, said local police officers.
Kalia is a post-graduate in Economics and first appeared for the UPSC exams in 2005, making to the Railways service on the second attempt but opting to pursue an IPS rank.
Married to IAS officer Vivek Kalia, who is the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) of Narnaul, she is the daughter-in-law of Mohinder Kumar who was also an IAS officer and retired as Secretary to former Haryana Governor Jagannath Pahadia.
Kalia’s transfer, meanwhile, drew heavy criticism from Leader of Opposition and INLD MLA Abhay Chautala who said “the minister had no right to publicly rebuke… a woman officer, who is also a Dalit”.
Congress leader and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda said “demoralising bureaucracy or officers is not good”.
One senior IAS officer, who did not wish to be named, questioned the “behaviour of the minister”. “What message will such a fearful environment send to the lower ranks?” he said.
A senior IPS officer, however, said Kalia should have exercised restraint. “When the minister was pointing out some lapses in police functioning, the officer should have listened to him and told him that corrective measures would be taken,” he said.
Another senior IAS officer agreed with that view. “In our conduct rules, it is mentioned that if a public representative misbehaves with an officer, he or she should maintain the decorum and dignity of the uniform. The officer should not have tried to lock horns with the minister. She should have informed her superior officers about the constraints in addressing the minister’s issues, if any,” said the official.
‘No sir, this is wrong’ : Excerpts from the exchange between Minister Anil Vij and IPS officer Sangeeta Rani Kalia during a public grievance meeting in Fatehabad when a participant raised a query about alleged illicit liquor trade in the area:
Kalia: Sharaab ke licence toh sarkaar deti hai (Liquor licences are granted by the government).
Vij: Sarkaar jaayaz bikri ke licence deti hai, najayaz ke nahi (Government grants licences for legal not illegal sale of liquor).
Kalia: Sir, hum nahi bikwa rahe sharaab (Sir, we don’t sell the liquor).
Vij: Aap bikwa rahe ho (You are getting it sold).
Kalia: Nahin sir, yeh galat baat hai (No sir, this is wrong)… publicly you cannot accuse an officer like this.
Vij: Chaliye yahan se, chaliye, you get out.
Kalia: Why?
Vij: Leave from here.
Kalia: I will not leave.
Vij: No, you leave now.
Kalia: No.
Vij: Then, I will leave.
