Girl tops CBSE Class 12 among differently-abled ||||
 Faridabad's Mudita Jagota has topped the CBSE class XII exam in the differently-abled category by scoring 97% marks. Mudita, who suffers from Spinal Muscular Atrophy Type II since birth, said she faced the same levels of stress and problems as other students. A humanities student, she wants to pursue Psychology (Hons) from Lady Shri Ram College. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0819bb33-39bd-419a-bda2-b366c21fc8c4-1||||
With 97 per cent and 96.4 per cent marks respectively, Mudita Jagota and Rakshit Malik have topped the Class XII board exams in the differently-abled category. Both are from the Humanities stream.
While Mudita scored 485/500, Rakshit has scored 482/500. Siddhartha Biswas from Kendriya Vidyalaya Sector 8 R K Puram came second by scoring 484/500.
CBSE class 12th results declared
Mudita, who suffers from Spinal Muscular Atrophy Type II since birth, said she faced the same levels of stress and problems as other students. “There wasn’t any special difficulty that I faced; academics wasn’t tougher for me. I faced the same pressure as everyone else,” said Mudita from DAV Public School, Sector 14 Faridabad.
Pics: Popping laddus and splashing colours, students celebrate after clearing CBSE hurdle
Rakshit, who went to Amity International School, Noida, says his 10 per cent visual impairment made it difficult for him to read as compared to others.
CBSE class 12 results 2016: 83.05 per cent students passed, 2.38 per cent higher than 2015
“I can’t read regular sized textbooks, so I studied from enlarged A3 books that were custom-made for me. My mother helped me in reading when I was preparing from exams, as I read much slower than other students.”
Despite their differences, there are many things that are common between the two. For starters, they both believe there is more to life than just good marks.
CBSE class 12th results: How to check your marks
“Marks are only important in order to get admission in a good college. Otherwise, I believe learning is more important than scoring well,” said Mudita.
Rakshit said, “A friend of mine scored 86 per cent. But she is a great dancer. Marks cannot account for that. I think it’s more important to focus on your skills and talent.”
While being academically inclined, both Mudita and Rakshit said they were interested in public speaking and debating in school.
They also share another dream — to get admission into one of Delhi University’s top colleges. While Rakshit wants to do History (Hons) from either St Stephen’s College or Hindu College, Mudita said she wants to do Psychology (Hons) from Lady Shri Ram College.
“I want to either become a clinical psychologist or a criminal psychologist. I’d like to understand why people commit the crimes they do,” said Mudita.
For more news on Education, keep checking this page 
