Modi to undertake 4-nation Africa tour on July 7 ||||
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit four African nations, namely Mozambique, South Africa, Tanzania, and Kenya, from July 7 to 11. According to the External Affairs Ministry, Modi will meet the Presidents of the four countries and strengthen bilateral ties during the visit. Notably, South Africa is one of the few countries that didn't favour Indias entry into the NSG. ||||
 ANI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/620b8b2f-14b9-4532-ba1c-a4f1e2bfad3b-1||||
New Delhi, July 1 (ANI): Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit four African nations namely Mozambique, South Africa, Tanzania and Kenya from July 7 to 11.
Addressing a weekly press conference, MEA official spokesperson Vikas Swarup said, "Prime Minister Modi would be visiting Mozambique, South Africa, Tanzania and Kenya from July 7 to July 11. On July 7th, he will have bilateral discussions with President Filipe Nyusi to strengthen our bilateral ties and enhance development and cooperation," Swarup said.
"From July 8th to 9th in South Africa, the Prime Minister will have meetings with President Jacob Zuma and other senior leaders across the political spectrum to enhance our historical relations with South Africa," he added.
The MEA official further said that the Prime Minister is also expected to visit Johannesburg, Pietermaritzburg and Durban in South Africa.
"On July 10 in Tanzania, Prime Minister Modi will have bilateral discussions with President John Magufuli to further enhance mutual cooperation and understanding on major issues of common interest," he said.
On July 11, Prime Minister Modi will be in Kenya to have bilateral discussions with President Uhuru Kenyatta.
The Prime Minister's visit follows the recent visits to Africa by President Pranab Mukherjee and Vice-President Hamid Ansari.
South Africa was also one of the few countries that had reservations on India's application to the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) at the just-concluded plenary session in Seoul.
India had, last year in October, hosted the India-Africa Summit which saw a participation of 41 of the 54 leaders of the African Union.
India's bilateral trade with Africa stands around $70 billion, way behind the figures of China's trade with Africa which has now exceeded $200 billion. (ANI)
