Triple murder in Kolkata locality ||||
 In a case of triple murder, a woman and her twin teenage sons were found dead in Kolkata's posh locality, Palm Avenue, on Saturday. The husband of the woman, who was found injured and unconscious, has been admitted to a city hospital. "Preliminary findings indicate the attacks could have taken place due to family disputes," a senior police official said. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/43947091-0011-0001-6682-000012345678||||
Bodies of a 42-year-old woman and her teenaged twin sons were Saturday found at their posh third-floor apartment in Palm Avenue while the husband was found critically injured, police said.
An officer of the Kolkata Police said blood-soaked bodies of Jessica Fonseca and her twin sons — Darren and Joshua (both 16) — with their throats slit and injuries on their heads were found in the flat, adding that the husband, 49-year-old Neil, has submitted to police a written version of what transpired since he was unable to speak.
Quoting from the letter written at the hospital where Neil is undergoing treatment, police said the incident took place around 4.30 am Saturday when he woke up and got busy on the phone.
According to the police, Neil, an interior decorator by profession, has mentioned in the letter an “affair” that he had three weeks ago, which, he claimed, led his wife to believe he was having an extra-marital affair when she found him checking his phone this morning.
He said he was “forced to kill” his wife when she attacked him with a knife and then stabbed their sons. Neil hit Jessica back with a dumbell and slit her throat with a knife. He then slit his wrist to take his own life, the officer quoted from Neil’s writing.
“We have recovered three blood-stained kitchen knives and one dumbell weighing 25 pounds,” the officer said.
Joint Commissioner of Kolkata Police (Crime) Debasish Boral said the husband’s statement are “subject to investigation and confirmation”. “We are also ascertaining whether his injuries are self-afflicted or he was attacked. There are several injuries (inflicted) by heavy objects. The exact reason will come out in the post-mortem,” he added.
According to the police, at the time there were Neil’s 85-year-old mother, daughter Samantha and sister-in-law Shabana Ansar present in the adjoining rooms but all claimed they did not hear anything. The family had gone to a restaurant Friday evening and had an argument upon returning home, neighbours have confirmed.
The police went to the spot after the local police station received a phone call that the family was not responding to calls. The building, located on Palm Avenue, is close to the residence of former Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee.
