Will hike minimum wages on August 15: Delhi govt ||||
 Delhi Labour Minister Gopal Rai on Friday announced to increase the minimum wages of workers on August 15. The AAP government took the decision after reviewing the average cost incurred per family on food, accommodation, electricity, clothing and education. The current minimum monthly wages in Delhi are 9,568 for unskilled workers, 10,582 for semi-skilled workers and 11,622 for skilled workers. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3c1259ef-f710-49c8-8be1-ad6ac995801f-1||||
The Delhi government is soon going to revise the minimum wage of skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled labourers, Labour Minister Gopal Rai announced Friday. The current minimum wage is Rs 9,568 for unskilled workers, Rs 10,582 for semi-skilled workers and Rs 11,622 for skilled workers.
A committee is looking into the issue and will send its recommendations on what the revised wages should be, said Rai. The 13-member tripartite body comprises representatives from workers’ groups, employers’ organisations and the government, said the minister
“The committee, headed by the labour commissioner, was notified on April 12. The commissioner has convened five meetings and constituted two sub-committees. These sub-committees undertook a survey on the price of essential food items in crowded areas such as Mangolpuri, Naraina, Narela, Okhla, Jhilmil Colony, and Wazirpur,” said the minister.
The minister added that the panel members also visited various stores and outlets.
“They noted the price of food items from Kendriya Bhandar, Mother Dairy and Safal outlets, to help calculate the requisite increase in minimum wages,” said Rai.
To figure out the average cost incurred by each family in Delhi, the committee factored in the cost of five components — food, accommodation, electricity, clothing and education — said the minister.
“In an effort to improve the quality of life of labourers, the AAP government is ready to implement the revised wages. The National Nutrition Institute, Hyderabad, has prescribed a requirement of 2,731 calories per worker per day. In addition to food requirements, other components like housing, education, fuel and power, and clothing have also been taken into consideration by the committee,” said Rai.
