BSF personnel, suspected ISI operative detained ||||
 Delhi police on Sunday reportedly detained a serving BSF head constable and a suspected ISI operative for allegedly threatening national security by exchanging secret, confidential information. Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Ravindra Yadav said the BSF constable was one of the chief sources of the ISI operative. He said, "The espionage racket run by them is supported by Pakistans ISI." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/16722819-0017-0011-0195-000012345678||||

Delhi Police Sunday claimed to have busted an espionage racket with the arrest of a suspected ISI operative and a BSF head constable, saying they were held on charges of providing confidential information to a Pakistan intelligence operative. They are relatives, said police.
Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) Ravindra Yadav said the accused were identified as Kafaitullah Khan alias Master Raja, 44, a resident of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir, and Border Security Force (BSF) head constable Abdul Rasheed, posted in the intelligence wing of of the force in the same district.
Suspected Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) operative Khan’s younger brother is in the Indian Army, said sources. “After their arrest, investigators are looking for a retired army havildar. Investigators are also likely to get in touch with Khan’s brother,” added the sources.
Yadav said Khan used to be in touch with the Pakistan intelligence operative, and Rasheed was one of his prime sources. “The espionage racket run by them is supported by Pakistan’s ISI.” Yadav said the duo was arrested under 3/9 Official Secrets Act (OSA).
Police said the racket was busted following work done on the basis of a tip-off about anti-national activities sponsored by the Pakistan intelligence operative. “Khan had boarded a train from Jammu for Bhopal. He was apprehended from New Delhi Railway station and documents having implication on national security were recovered from his possession,” said Yadav.
Khan told police during questioning that he works as a library assistant at Higher Secondary School, Manjakote tehsil, Rajouri district. “In 2013, Khan had visited Pakistan and come in contact with an ISI agent. He agreed to share secret information on defence forces for money,” said Yadav. He added that Khan later activated his sources in the Indian Army and BSF, and some of them allegedly started passing him secret documents.
Yadav added, “Khan was given specific tasks by the Pakistan intelligence operative, mainly concerned with the deployment of security forces and air force operations. He was going to Bhopal to allegedly recruit more persons for the racket. Khan had roped in Rasheed into the network, luring him with a share of the commission he received from ISI agents. Police raided Rasheed’s residence in Rajouri district and recovered more confidential documents.”
Explaining Khan’s mode of operation, Yadav said information was passed through email, WhatsApp and Viber networks.
 
