Pune to reserve commercial property for disabled ||||
 The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has proposed a policy to reserve 5% of its commercial properties given on rental basis for physically challenged citizens. Currently, "the PMC allots commercial properties to physically-challenged citizens on demand," a civic officer said. According to reports, the PMC also decided to reserve 50% of its commercial complexes for citizens of various categories. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/5a8f9129-92bf-48fd-974b-0a6b41bcfc23-1||||
 
In a step that promises economic empowerment of physically-challenged citizens, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has proposed a policy to reserve five per cent of its commercial properties given on rental basis for the category. Civic commercial properties include vegetable markets, multi-purpose centres, shops and offices in the city.
According to the civic administration, many physically-challenged citizens approach the PMC seeking commercial properties on rent to earn their livelihood. Elected representatives too recommend the same for physically-challenged citizens in their knowledge.
“The PMC allots commercial properties to physically-challenged citizens on demand, but there is no policy that reserves properties for them. Thus, framing a policy would ensure that a certain number of properties are reserved across the city,” said a civic officer.
The civic administration has proposed that it would reserve five per cent of the commercial properties in any civic-owned building for physically-challenged citizens.
“If there are more than one applicant seeking civic-owned commercial property on rent, then it would be selected through a lottery system,” the officer said, adding that the applications would be considered on the recommendation of the social welfare department.
The PMC has decided to reserve 50 per cent of the properties in any commercial complex owned by it for citizens of various categories. It has listed the priorities as an applicant from a backward class community, a project-affected citizen, physically-disabled citizen, ex-servicemen, divorcee or widow, and winners of state and President awards.
The commercial properties would be rented by seeking a guarantee of six months rental and advance payment of one month rental. At present there are 290 commercial properties owned by PMC, of which 74 have been allotted to various individuals or organisations. “Therefore, the physically-disabled would be allotted from the remaining commercial properties,” the civic officer said.
