EC postpones bypoll in Mufti's constituency ||||
 The Election Commission on Thursday postponed Anantnag Assembly seat  bypoll in Jammu and Kashmir, after the government said the law and order situation was "not conducive". This was former Chief Minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed's constituency, which fell vacant in January after his death. The bypoll for Ghoradongri seat in Madhya Pradesh was also postponed due to the upcoming Simhastha Mahakumbh. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/62565194-0018-0004-1343-000012345678||||
Two days after the Election Commission issued a notification announcing elections to the Anantnag assembly constituency on May 16, the poll panel Thursday postponed the bypoll following a request from the J&K government. The assembly seat fell vacant after the death of former Chief Minister and PDP patron Mufti Mohammad Sayeed. The poll is especially important for CM Mehbooba Mufti, who is likely to contest from this seat. She is not a member of either of the two Houses of the J&K Assembly.
In his request, the state chief secretary told the poll panel that Anantnag’s law and order situation was “not conducive” for the polls at present. The opposition, however, termed the postponement as Mehbooba’s “admission” that she was afraid of “facing the bypoll”.
While the government didn’t explain why it found the situation in Anantnag constituency — Anantnag town and adjoining area — not conducive, it seemed clear that the decision was more political than administrative. The graph of PDP’s support across its traditional stronghold in south Kashmir, especially in urban Anantnag, has sharply declined ever since the party joined BJP to form a coalition.
In its notification on Thursday, the EC said the J&K chief secretary had apprised the commission that “due to certain recent incidents” the situation was “not conducive” for holding the bypoll. On Tuesday, the EC had issued a notification announcing the bypoll on May 16, saying that the result will be declared on May 19.
Meanwhile, apart from pointing out PDP’s declining popularity to claim that Mehbooba was unsure of a victory, Opposition parties also said that the CM may now take the easy route by becoming a member of the Legislative Council.
“The law and order situation is just an excuse. They are seeing the ground moving beneath their feet. She (Mehbooba Mufti) claims to be a popular leader. If she takes the Upper House route, it would be a moral defeat for her,” said State Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir.
“It’s an admission both of how bad things have become under @mehbooba_mufti & how petrified she is of facing the people…,” former CM and working president of National Conference Omar Abdullah tweeted.
Neither PDP’s chief spokesman Mehboob Beig nor the party’s Kashmir spokesman, Rafi Ahmad Mir, were available for
comment.
A PDP leader, however, said: “Although it is highly unlikely that a sitting CM, and that too Mehbooba Mufti, would lose from Anantnag, there are few doubts in her mind. I don’t think she wants to take any risk.’’
“She cannot afford to lose this poll. First, she wants to be elected from the constituency which was vacated because of Mufti Sahib’s death. Second, she wants to win an election after her decision to go with the BJP…She will use a victory in Anantnag as a public approval to her leadership…Third, she wants to win to regain the control on PDP…(but) because this election would have taken place soon after the J&K government moves to the summer capital Srinagar, in the first week of May, she had no time to campaign in the constituency,” said a PDP leader.
Meanwhile, the EC also postponed bypoll for the Ghoradongari assembly seat in Madhya Pradesh due to the Simhastha Mahakumbh that will begin on April 22.
Although the EC hasn’t announced the new election dates for the two assembly seats, sources told The Indian Express that it could be scheduled in the second or third week of June.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
