Sena warns action on leader for 'slipper' threat ||||
 Shiv Sena on Saturday threatened action against its leader Haji Arafat Shaikh for his statement that activist Trupti Desai would be welcomed with slippers if she tried to enter the Haji Ali Dargah. Notably, Desai, who earlier fought for women entry to the Shani Shinganapur Temple's sanctum, is now demanding entry for women in the Haji Ali Dargah. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/19748576-0017-0004-1814-000012345678||||
The Shiv Sena Saturday threatened action against its senior leader Haji Arafat Shaikh for saying that woman activist Trupti Desai would be welcomed with slippers if she forced an entry to the Haji Ali Dargah.
Desai, who had led a movement to force open the inner sanctum of Shani Shingnapur Temple at Ahmednagar and Trimbakeshwar Temple in Nashik for women, has now asked Haji Ali Dargah Trust to allow women inside the tomb of Pir Haji Ali Shah Bukhari to offer “chadar”.
The woman activist has joined a new forum demanding Haji Ali Sab Ke Liye (Haji Ali for All). The women were planning to enter the Haji Ali tomb on Thursday. They urged the Haji Ali Trust to end gender discrimination.
Shaikh had said, “If anybody tries to break rules, we will welcome them with slippers.”
Shaikh’s remarks led to a furore and the Sena reacted promptly.
Sena (MLC) Neelam Gorhe said: “The Shiv Sena does not endorse the statement made by Shaikh, which is his personal view. The Sena will strictly abide by the stand taken by the Bombay High Court.”
The party thus indicated that Sena wants gender equality in places of worship.
Desai’s initiative is in support of several Muslim women’s organisations seeking entry of women into the Haji Ali Dargah. They want to be allowed to offer prayers inside the tomb. However, Haji Ali Dargah Trust believes the age-old tradition cannot be done away with as it would amount to working against the tenets of Islam.
He cited immunity on the grounds that it was a trust run by minorities and said, “Such an act would be anti-Islam.”
The police have initiated an independent probe into Shaikh’s statement on “chappals” to ensure it does not lead to a law and order issue.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
