PM Modi's BA degree authentic: DU Registrar ||||
 Delhi University's Registrar Tarun Das on Tuesday clarified that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's BA degree, as circulated by BJP, is "authentic". He added that the discrepancies being alleged by AAP in the marksheet "exist in university records as well". Earlier in the day, a delegation of AAP members had also visited Delhi University seeking details of his degree. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d7c80e2e-2168-4c72-85fe-49219cabb779-1||||
Delhi University (DU) Registrar Tarun Das Tuesday told the media that DU’s records showed that the bachelor’s degree awarded to Prime Minister Narendra Modi was “authentic.”
“Delhi University seeks to maintain privacy of any student who is getting enrolled with it. In view of the queries and reports in media, the University would like to state that Narendra Damodardas Modi had qualified for degree of Bachelors of Arts. His enrollment number was CC 594/74 and his examination roll number number was 16594,” Das said in a statement to TV channel Times Now and the Press Trust of India.
The statement was made Tuesday evening, after DU Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Tyagi turned away a delegation of four AAP leaders — Ashutosh, Sanjay Singh, Ashish Khetan and Dilip Pandey — who visited the DU campus to “inspect” the university’s records with regard to PM Modi’s marksheets and BA degree.
WATCH | PM Modi BA Degree ‘Authentic’, Discrepancies In Marksheets Minor Error, Says DU Registrar
The V-C declined to meet the AAP leaders and asked them to return for a meeting Wednesday afternoon.
Das also dismissed the objections raised about the “discrepancies” in the name mentioned on the marksheets. “It is difficult to comment on minor variations,” said the registrar.
However, AAP claimed the university was “under pressure from the central government” and reiterated its claim that the documents produced by BJP on PM Modi’s graduate and post-graduate degrees were “fake”.
Earlier in the day, AAP leaders visited DU and waved copies of marksheets which, they claimed, were issued to “real DU students in 1978”. They said these were “different” from the marksheets produced by the BJP a day earlier.
The AAP leaders waited for over an hour outside the V-C’s office, surrounded by mediapersons and police personnel. However, DU’s Dean of Students’ Welfare J M Khurana said the “V-C was not available”.
AAP leaders, however, claimed DU officials were “scared” of speaking about the issue. “There is an atmosphere of fear in the university. No one is ready to speak about the degree awarded to the PM,” said AAP leader Sanjay Singh.
He added, “Why can’t the university make the documents public after the CIC issued orders that a copy of the degree and marksheets be given to us,” said Singh.
However, a senior DU official said, “Only the RTI applicant, who the CIC order is in favour of, can inspect the official records. How can we show documents to a third person,” said the official.
AAP leaders, meanwhile, claimed that in the marksheets of “real DU students of that period, the name of the student, her course and the marks obtained by her were written by hand”. They claimed the marksheet produced by the BJP Monday was “typed”.
“In 1978, there were no computers in this country. Even typewriters could not tabulate like this,” said Ashutosh.
