Bus driver refuses to pay toll, rams in tollgate ||||
 According to police, a bus driver on Sunday refused to pay 60 toll tax at Kherki Daula toll plaza in Gurgaon and also tried to crush a manager deployed on duty under wheels when he tried to stop him. The incident has been captured on CCTV and the police have launched operations to nab the accused based on the footage. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/f724d350-b092-42f9-95af-79d9ce3a793f-1||||
Gurgaon, May 22 (PTI) A bus driver today allegedly tried to crush a senior manager of Kherki Daula toll plaza under the wheels when he asked him to stop the vehicle and pay the toll of Rs 60, police said.
The incident happened around 11.20 AM when a bus, belonging to a private city bus service, reached the toll plaza and the toll collector asked the driver to pay the toll of Rs 60, but he refused to pay and tried to flee, they said.
On seeing that driver was trying to flee without pay toll, the senior manager, Yadav signalled him to stop but the driver tried to crush him under the wheels but Yadav jumped aside to save himself, they said.
Whole incident was captured on the CCTV which the toll company later handed over to Gurgaon police, based on which a case has been registered against the accused bus driver in Kherki Daula police station.
In another incident, a toll collector was manhandled in his toll plaza office allegedly by 6-7 persons after he asked a truck driver to pay toll fee, police said.
The incident, which was also captured on CCTV, happened on Friday when toll collector Manoj Kumar asked the truck driver to pay the toll fee, they said.
The driver refused to pay saying he was a local and also showed Kumar a registration certificated (RC) of the vehicle, as locals are exempted from paying toll fee.
But the toll collector refused to allow him to go without paying toll as the RC was "forged", following which the driver called some people from nearby village and manhandled Kumar, the police said.
Gurgaon police PRO Hawa Singh said, in both the incidents, police have registered case against unidentified persons and the driver.
