Kejriwal living in "fool's paradise": Amarinder ||||
 Responding to AAP Chief Arvind Kejriwal's assertion that the Congress would be decimated in the Punjab elections, Congress leader Captain Amarinder Singh said that Kejriwal was living in a "fool's paradise". "Like the PPP (Punjab Peoples Party), the AAP will soon vanish into thin air," he said. He was referring to the PPP, which merged with the Congress last month. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/dd9eae0c-b4c2-48dc-8641-bf34270f2bf7-1||||
A day after AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal said Congress would be decimated in Punjab, state Congress president Captain Amarinder Singh said that Delhi CM was living in a “fool’s paradise.” “Like the PPP (Punjab People’s Party), the AAP will soon vanish into thin air,” he said, referring to the party that merged with the Congress last month.
“PPP leader Manpreet Badal still had integrity and credibility to his credit and he was the son of the soil and Kejriwal lacks in all these attributes.”
Kejriwal had Thursday said AAP would bag 107 seats in Assembly polls in Punjab slated for next year. “I am surprised why did he not claim 117 out of 117 because that could have suited and sounded much better for him,” said Amarinder.
The PCC president pointed out that since 2014, when AAP won four parliamentary seats in Punjab, it had split vertically with two MPs already having revolted. “Besides, the two byelections it contested, its candidates had to forfeit the security deposit in both. After that, it did not dare to contest any byelection.”
“If you have really started believing that you are going to sail on the political deadwood you have been importing from other parties, may God bless you as you are doomed and destined to drown. No matter how much you try to polish it, deadwood will always remain deadwood only,” said Amarinder.
He said compared to Rs 20 crore annual advertisement budget of Sheila Dixit’s government in Delhi, Kejriwal had allocated Rs 620 crore for advertisements. “And all that money he was spending in Punjab only to spread lies and befool people here.”
