JD(U) sacks Rocky Yadav's mother Manorama Devi ||||
 JD(U) on Tuesday suspended party MLC Manorama Devi, whose son Rocky Yadav is accused of shooting dead a 20-year-old youth for overtaking his car. Earlier in the day, Rakesh Ranjan Yadav alias Rocky Yadav was arrested and sent to 14-day judicial custody. Notably, the incident had triggered protests, with opposition parties alleging breakdown of law and order in the state. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a2feaa53-057d-47e6-a34c-c0f80a3f46d0-1||||
Bihar’s ruling Janatal Dal(U) today suspended its MLC Manorama Devi whose son Rocky Yadav was arrested in connection with killing of a Gaya youth in an incident of road rage.
“The party has suspended Manorama Devi for six years,” state JD(U) President Basistha Narayan Singh told PTI.
He said the action followed recovery of liquor from her Gaya house during a raid last night.
The MLC’s suspension came a little after Chief Minister Nitish Kumar returned here from Dhanbad, Jharkhand, where he attended a programme on liquor ban.
Manorama Devi is the wife of Bindi Yadav, a RJD strongman from Gaya who is now in jail custody in connection with the road rage.
Aditya Sachdeva was shot dead allegedly by Rocky for overtaking his vehicle in Gaya on Saturday last.
Pressure was mounting on the state government to take action against Manorama Devi after police caught her son Rocky Yadav, who had been absconding since the incident, in the early hours of today for the murder of Sachdeva.
Her trouble aggravated after recovery of about 18 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor from her house last night in Gaya during a police raid to find her fugitive son.
Kumar had said yesterday police was probing the case independently and would initiate action against everyone found involved in the murder of the youth.
Manorama Devi had joined JD(U) in June last year and was made a MLC.
She was RJD member of state legislative council from 2003 to 2009 and shot into limelight after becoming chief of Mohanpur block in 2001.
Rocky Yadav has been reamanded to judicial custody for 14 days by a Gaya court during the day and sent to the Central Jail there.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
