Sports Ministry to screen Olympics around Delhi ||||
 Sports Minister Vijay Goel has said the Ministry will put up screens around Delhi to telecast the Rio Olympics, which begin on August 5. While the exact number of screens to be put up hasn't been disclosed, screenings will be held in areas like Connaught Place and Chandni Chowk. Goel will reportedly be travelling to Rio with the Indian contingent. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/7078a7c8-e993-429b-b1e9-70d547e36124-1||||
Sports Minister Vijay Goel on Thursday said that giant screens will be put up all around Delhi for people to watch the Indian athletes perform in the Rio Olympics beginning August 5.
“We want to take sports to every doorstep and keeping that philosophy in mind, we have decided to install big screens all around the city during the Olympics. The screens will be put up in areas like Connaught Place and Chandni Chowk,” said Goel without revealing the number of screens to be installed around the city.
The Minister further confirmed that he will also be traveling to Rio for the Summer Games.
Goel, speaking at his residence in New Delhi, also unveiled the Indian contingent’s kit in the presence of Indian Olympic Association (IOA) president N Ramachandran and secretary general Rajeev Mehta.
Chinese sports apparel and equipment company, Li Ning, has struck the kit sponsorship deal with the IOA.
On the issue of female physio not accompanying the wrestlers in Rio, Goel said an extra person will be added to the contingent.
It will be the first time that three women wrestlers will represent India at the Games.
Ramachandran, sitting next to Goel, insisted IOA and Sports Ministry are on the same page ahead of the Olympics in which India will be fielding its biggest ever contingent of over 100 athletes.
“We (IOA and Ministry) are together for the athletes’ cause though people may have different opinions,” said Ramachandran.
Meanwhile, the sports ministry said it has asked sprinter Dutee Chand’s employers Railways Sports Promotion Board to relieve her from her job as soon as she submits resignation so that she can join a new job, reportedly as Assistant Manager in the Odisha Mining Corporation, a Public Sector Undertaking.
Taking note of reports in a section of media which said that Dutee was running around for a new PSU job, the ministry said in a release that it has contacted the sprinter who’s currently working as Traveling Ticket Examiner (TTE) in the Indian Railways to ascertain the facts.
The ministry said Dutee is yet to resign from her job and on it’s query the Secretary RSPB has assured that formalities relating to relieving of Dutee from Indian Railways will be expedited once she submits formal a resignation letter.
