Andhra's urban areas to be Open Defecation Free ||||
 Andhra Pradesh could become the first Indian state to make all its urban areas 'Open Defecation Free' by October 2, Union Urban Development Ministry said on Saturday. This was informed by the state officials during a review of progress of the urban initiatives like Smart City Mission, Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Swachh Bharat Mission. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2d0bd5c2-fd28-42b3-bc22-d4ec51779937-1||||

Andhra Pradesh could become the first state in the country to make all its urban areas ‘Open Defecation Free’ by October 2, marking two years of the launch of Swachh Bharat Mission, Union Urban Development Ministry said on Saturday.
The state officials gave this assurance during a review of progress of the central cleanliness drive in all 110 municipalities of AP by Urban Development Secretary Rajiv Gauba at Visakhapatnam, an official release said.
Gauba went to the port city to review progress of urban initiatives like Smart City Mission, Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Swachh Bharat Mission.
He held discussions with the Collectors of all 13 districts and municipal commissioners of all 110 urban local bodies in AP on their action plans for ensuring sanitation.
“During the review, it emerged that Andhra Pradesh, which has been in the forefront of construction of toilets in urban areas, can make all 100 municipalities open defecation free by October 2, this year, as per the action plans in progress,” the release by Urban Development Ministry said.
As against a target of construction of 1,94,336 individual household toilets in urban areas of AP, work has started in respect of 1,53,779 and construction of 1,04,732 toilets has already been completed, it said.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
Besides the central aid of Rs 4,000 per toilet, AP government is extending assistance of an additional Rs 11,000 per toilet giving a big boost for the programme.
Regarding Community and Public Toilet seats, as against the mission target of 4,614 seats, work has started on 3,887 seats and 1,952 seats have already been constructed, it said.
