Rape accused MLA undergoes psychiatric test ||||
 Expelled Congress MLA Atanasio Monserratte, who was been accused of 'buying' and raping a minor girl, underwent psychiatric tests on Sunday, said a police official. "The accused was taken for psychiatric examination at Institute of Psychiatry and Human Behaviour near Panaji Saturday evening and again on Sunday", said the official. Monserratte also underwent a medical examination. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/e8c57c6b-f773-4b6b-bede-0611b9aee2a6-1||||
Expelled Congress legislator Atanasio Monserratte, arrested for allegedly “buying” and raping a 16-year-old girl, underwent psychiatric tests Sunday, police said.
“The accused was taken for psychiatric examination at Institute of Psychiatry and Human Behaviour near Panaji Saturday evening and again on Sunday where various tests were conducted,” a senior police official said Sunday.
The legislator had undergone medical examination soon after his arrest three days ago.
The MLA would be produced before Goa Children’s Court on Monday where police would seek an extension of his remand.
A senior police officer said the investigating agency has collected some evidence in connection with the case, including a blood-stained linen apparently used on the day of the alleged offence.
READ: Third accused in rape, human trafficking of minor involving Goa MLA surrenders
“The forensic examination would be conducted to check if the stains on the linen match the blood samples,” he said.
Meanwhile, a local court on Sunday remanded another accused Rosy Ferros, who was arrested Saturday for allegedly selling the girl to the MLA, in police custody for three days.
Rosy had surrendered before the Crime Branch Saturday following which she was placed under arrest and booked for trafficking along with the girl’s mother.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
Monserratte was arrested three days back and sent in police custody for allegedly “buying” and sexually exploiting the girl. The victim’s mother too was arrested.
The girl, in her statement to the police, had claimed she was sold by her mother to Monserratte in March for Rs 50 lakh. Ferros allegedly brokered the deal.
The MLA has denied the allegations claiming that he had sacked the victim from her job at his lifestyle store at Miramar beach in Goa for stealing cash.
