KMC ties up with UK to make Kolkata a green city ||||
 Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the British Government on Friday jointly launched a roadmap to make Kolkata low-carbon and climate resilient. The roadmap plans to reduce carbon emissions, create one million green jobs and attract investment in multiple sectors. KMC had in 2013 signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the British government to provide 1 million in technical assistance. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/15867774-0005-0001-5574-000012345678||||
Britain’s Employment minister Priti Patel and Kolkata Municipal Corporation Mayor Sovan Chatterjee Friday launched a roadmap for the capital’s strategy to become a “low-carbon and climate resilient city”.
The British-Indian MP, in town to attend the Bengal Global Business Summit, said, “Kolkata is leading the way in India, and playing its part in the international effort to tackle climate change.” Her visit comes soon after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s trip to London to strengthen the business and cultural ties between Bengal and Britain.
“I am delighted to be back in this great city. I fondly recall my visit here in November 2013 with our Prime Minister (David Cameron). I was struck by the city’s warmth, its vibrant culture,” Patel said.
During that visit two years ago, KMC and the UK government had signed a memorandum of understanding to provide technical assistance of € 1 million to implement the initiative.
“I am delighted to be here today to celebrate the culmination of that work,” Patel added.
With the launch of the roadmap, she said, Kolkata has become one of the first cities in India to create a strategic policy towards lowering emissions and countering the impacts of climate change while reaping the economic benefits that a low-carbon transition can bring.
“Through this unique programme, British and Indian experts have worked together to help KMC design and implement policies and practices that will be good for the environment, good for local people, and good for the economy. Over the next decade, the roadmap is expected to save carbon emissions, create one million green jobs, and attract investment in multiple sectors such as solar, solid waste management and energy efficient lighting,” she said.
Congratulating the mayor, his team and their British partners for this initiative, the UK minister said she looks forward to sharing Kolkata’s success story with other cities across the world.
She added, “In Paris in December, we witnessed a historic step forward. For the first time ever, 195 countries, including the world’s largest emitters, committed to act together to combat climate change and be held equally accountable.”
Patel, 43, is the first woman of Indian origin to become a member of the British cabinet.
