Delhi: Google, Twitter to relay bus information ||||
 In the wake of Delhi's odd-even car ruling, the state government has decided to collaborate with Google and Twitter to provide real-time information of bus routes in particular areas. Delhi Transport Minister Gopal Rai said, With this, people will easily get to know about bus information through the link to be available on Twitter and Google. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/21549204-0010-0012-2667-000012345678||||
As the Delhi government prepares to enforce the odd-even vehicle scheme from January 1, Transport Minister Gopal Rai Friday announced a slew of measures to augment public transport in the national capital, including the government’s decision to tie up with Google and Twitter to provide primary data about bus and Metro services in the city.
“Many people have been driving their cars for years and have not used public transport. This will enable them to know which bus routes they can take from one place to the other or the nearest bus stop from their location. We have already had one meeting with them,” said Rai.
In order to ensure enhanced bus services when the odd-even scheme comes into effect, the Delhi government will also ply 6,000 additional buses, including 2,000 school buses, during the 15-day trial period of the scheme.
The government has also extended the deadline for registration of private buses from December 20 to December 26. “If private buses are damaged while operating for the public, their owners will be reimbursed by the government after a three-member committee assesses the damage,” said Rai.
“No DTC employees will be allowed to take leave from January 1 to 15. They will be given their weekly off but no other leaves will be allowed,” said Rai.
Rai said that 22 buses of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) will have electronic ticketing machines by the end of this month and the machines will be installed in all buses by May next year.
Mobile GPS will also be installed in all the buses, he said, adding that the DIMTS, DTC and the DMRC will work jointly towards making a common mobility card work.
He also said the government will try to rope in retired conductors to work on private buses that will enhance the strength of public buses. The transport department’s target is to recruit 4,000 new conductors.
Rai said that remote sensing cameras will be installed at different locations in the city to monitor the decline in the number of vehicles on different roads after the odd-even scheme is implemented.
Six buses with CCTV and WiFi will be tested by the government on December 23, said the minister.
The government has also appointed a four-member committee under the chief secretary to determine the law under which the government will penalise violators of the odd-even operations.
Rai said that a meeting with unions of Metro feeder buses was held Friday.
“There are 270 feeder buses and 156 Metro stations. Some feeder buses ply up to 20 km.We plan to limit the run of the feeder buses to 4 or 5 km,” said Rai.
 
