Pak has not declined NIA team visit: Swaraj ||||
 Pakistan is seeking "more time" to examine the Pathankot attack evidence and has not refused an NIA team from visiting the country, said Union Minister Sushma Swaraj on Sunday. She also said India is "waiting for concrete steps from their side" regarding the probe. She further asserted that Indo-Pakistan talks cannot go on if Pakistan does not act against terror. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/89cce2fd-5eb8-4c21-9c58-6b8aeec93fba-1||||
External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj on Sunday said that Pakistan has not refused to allow an NIA team to visit that country to probe the Pathankot airbase attack case and just sought “more time” even as it made it clear that talks and terror cannot go hand-in-hand.
Addressing a press conference in the national capital, Swaraj also said the “warmth and ease” in relationship between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif can help resolve complex issues between the two neighbours.
Asserting that India wants to resolve all vexed issues with Pakistan through talks, Swaraj said the government was pursuing a three-point formula to deal with Islamabad the focus of which is that talks cannot go on if Pakistan does not take action to contain terror.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
“First, we want to solve every issue thorough talks. Second, talks will be between India and Pakistan and no third country or party will be its part. Third, terror and talks will not go hand-in-hand,” Swaraj said.
Swaraj said there have been complex issues between the two countries and it would not be practical to expect their resolution soon. “After Pathankot attack, there were expectations from government and people that there should be some concrete steps from their side. This expectation is not unreasonable. So we are waiting for concrete steps from their side,” she said.
Also Read| Sushma Swaraj: China not protesting India’s membership in NSG
The External Affairs Minister said Pakistan has not refused to allow a team of NIA to visit that country to carry forward the probe into the Pathankot terror attack case and that it is just seeking “more time” to examine the evidence.
A five-member Joint Investigation Team (JIT) from Pakistan had visited India between March 27 and 31 to collect evidence with regard to the attack.
India has been maintaining that since JIT’s visit was on a reciprocal basis, the NIA team investigating the case would like to visit Pakistan.
Swaraj said the Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad had met the authorites on the issue twice and “they said they are analysing (the evidence). They have not refused (to allow NIA to visit). They just said they want more time.”
(With inputs from PTI)
