'Dishoom' earns 11.05 crore on its opening day ||||
 The John Abraham, Varun Dhawan and Jacqueline Fernandez starrer 'Dishoom' has earned11.05 crore on its opening day. The film, which is being played on around 3,000 screens, has become the sixth highest opening day grosser, according to Bollywood trade analyst Taran Adarsh. Directed by Rohit Dhawan, the film also features Akshaye Khanna while Akshay Kumar makes a cameo appearance. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/4e615cb4-e408-4464-99c6-8149463ff382-1||||
Varun Dhawan and John Abraham's Dishoom landed at box office on Friday (July 29) and while Dishoom box office collections on day 1 are not expected to soar to the level of Salman Khan's Sultan or Rajinikanth's Kabali, it is getting a good response from audiences.
An out-and-out masala entertainer, Dishoom opened to about 40 percent occupancy on Friday. The reviews remained mixed with the film's plot and a weak villain -- played by Akshaye Khanna -- turning into a stumbling block. Trade is expecting the first-day earnings to hover in Rs 8-10 crore range. However, Akshay Kumar's cameo in the film is grabbing the eyeballs as is the bromance between its leads -- Varun and John.
The film has opened on about 3,000 screens and with the kind of opening it has got, Dishoom's box office collection will go up on Saturday and Sunday. The film is being touted as a masala entertainer, a genre that audience's favour.
The film's other Bollywood competition -- Salman Khan's Sultan and Irrfan Khan's Madaari -- has also run out of steam. While Madaari got a lukewarm reception, Sultan has run its course after releasing on July 6. Down south, Rajinikanth's Kabali is still going strong.
Trade experts opined that both John and Varun have fan following, which will attract the audience to multiplex. Dishoom's action content is likely to appeal to mass centres and single screens. If all goes right, Dishoom is looking at Rs 25-30 crore in first-weekend box office collections. The film has been made at the cost of around Rs 55 crore with a promotional budget of Rs 15 crore. The coming five days will decide if Dishoom can collect enough at BO and end in profit. (Dishoom movie review: This John Abraham, Varun Dhawan film fails to zip-zap-zoom)
