Namibia assures supply of uranium to India ||||
 Namibian President Hage Geingob, during President Pranab Mukherjee's ongoing visit, assured India of exploring "legal ways" to supply uranium for peaceful nuclear use. The two countries had inked a pact in 2009 for Namibia to supply uranium to India but the deal has since been on hold. Notably, both India and Namibia are seeking membership to the Nuclear Suppliers Group. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/b9bfc2da-fbdc-47fc-a9cc-b87dcfb2aea4-1||||
From Abhishek Shukla
Windhoek, Jun 17 (PTI) Resource-rich Nambia today assured that it will look into "legal ways" through which its uranium can be supplied to India for peaceful nuclear use.
Speaking at the State Banquet hosted in the honour of President Pranab Mukherjee, Namibian President Hage Geingob said Namibia commends India's commitment towards peaceful use of nuclear energy.
"We will look into legal ways wherein our uranium can be used by India," he said.
Geingob said his country had resources but cannot use them as it does not posses any nuclear weapons.
"We have resources but we cannot use it we do not have nuclear weapons. But there are those who can use it. We will look into legal ways," he said.
Citing a conversation with a former diplomat of India, he said it was a "nuclear apartheid" that a handful of countries wanted to dictate terms of nuclear technology.
In an impassioned speech on reforms in United Nations, IMF and World Bank, the President said how can a country with 1.2 billion people and a continent with one billion people do not get representation in the United Nations Security Council.
"How can it be democratic?" Geingob asked.
Inviting Indian companies to invest in Namibia, Geingob lauded India's proposal of International Solar Alliance, saying he appreciated the country's role in combating climate change.
"In Namibia, we see ourselves as gateway to Africa. We are also in close proximity to South America which is an important partner in South South cooperation but we are ready to be gateway to Indian companies into Africa and South America," he said.
"India attaches high importance to enhancing her bilateral relations with Namibia. Our two countries have been cooperating closely while making sustained efforts to realise the developmental goals of our two nations," Mukherjee said.
"We share the view that reform of the United Nations and its principle organs - created in the wake of the Second World War - is an imperative. We agree that they need to be made more reflective of today's changed world - so that they can respond more effectively to the complex challenges confronting the world today," he said in his speech.
Mukherjee said Africa and India, as centres of gravity in today's globalised world, have a responsibility to work together for peace, security and sustainable development in the two continents.
