Delhi: 2000 fine for violating odd-even rule ||||
 Delhi government on Monday announced that violators of the odd-even rule will be fined 2000 when it takes effect for fifteen days starting January 1. The government reportedly discussed exemption for cars with four persons travelling in them and for women drivers with women passengers. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had recently requested the Centre to cooperate with the odd-even plan. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/62140524-0005-0012-3012-000012345678||||
The Delhi government Monday decided to levy a fine of Rs 2,000 on vehicles found flouting the odd-even rule that will be in effect between January 1 and 15.
In a meeting chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, the government also discussed the categories that could be exempted from the rule. Cars with four persons travelling in them are likely be exempted.
“Car pooling will reduce the load of providing additional public transport and would also mean lesser vehicles on road,” said a source. However, the source added that families will not be exempted.
Also read: Delhi govt wants 6,000 private buses during odd-even run, 600 is what it has so far 
Women drivers with women co-passengers are also being considered in the exemption category. “Only those cars that have women passengers will be exempted. It becomes mentally exhausting for women accustomed to private cars to travel via public transport. Running behind buses and the threat of eve-teasing would act as a deterrent for them to use public transport. But women drivers who offer lifts to their male colleagues will not be exempted from the rule,” added the source.
Sources also claimed that majority of ministers are rooting to exempt two-wheelers as well.
“The decision is yet to be finalised as the chief minister’s approval is awaited. Many ministers are of the opinion that the ban would cause problem for the lower-middle class,” added the sources.
Also Read: Arvind Kejriwal writes to PM Modi, seeks support for ‘odd-even’ measure
The government is likely to announce its policy on the odd-even formula soon. In a separate notification, it will also announce a penalty of Rs 2,000 for those who violate lane driving rules as well. The government is currently in the process of marking bus lanes in the city. “Marking of bus lane work in progress. Bus lane will be marked on all roads 30m and above before 1 Jan 2016,” said PWD minister Satyendar Jain.
The government had announced that about 6,000 private buses will used for public transport on the roads when the odd-even formula is in effect.
Under guidelines set by the Supreme Court, it is mandatory for buses to ply on the extreme left side of roads and if they cross into another lane, they are liable to be fined by the traffic police.
 
