Maha: Doing well in yoga may reduce jail term ||||
 Prisoners in central jails across Maharashtra could get three months remitted from their sentence by performing well in a proposed yoga exam, Additional Director General of Police (Prisons) said on Saturday. The idea came during the prison officials' recent Israel visit where they saw prisoners performing yoga. The paper would consist of a physical examination and a written test. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/10251612-0005-0001-6787-000012345678||||
A visit to Israel has prompted the state prison machinery to include a paper on yoga across all central prisons starting this year, good performance in which will allow convicts a remission of three months from jail, the Additional Director General of Police (Prisons) told The Indian Express on the sidelines of an a daylong yoga camp organised at the Arthur Road jail.
The ADGP, Prisons, who has the powers to remit the jail term of a convict up to three months, will exercise this discretionary power for inmates who perform well in the yoga exams. “Under the Prison Manual, the ADGP Prisons has the power to remit the sentence of a prisoner up to three months under various heads like good behavior, helping other prisoners, showing signs of reformation etc. From this year, we will conduct an exam on yoga and whoever performs well will get remission under the head of reformation,” ADGP (Prisons) Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay told The Indian Express.
The idea of including yoga as a part of the prison reformation curriculum was chanced upon by senior officials of the Prisons department while on a recent official trip to Israel, where the officials had gone to study the security set-up of prisons.
During the trip, Principal Secretary, Prison, Dr Vijay Satbir Singh, ADGP Upadhyay and DIG (Prision) Bipin Kumar Singh had participated at a yoga camp held in Israel where they saw many foreigners effortlessly do yoga.
On Saturday, yoga guru Ramdev gave an hour-long lecture on yoga at Arthur Road Jail and even demonstrated a few ‘asanas’ that would help the inmates deal with stress and loneliness inside the prison.
The proposed yoga paper will be divided in two parts — physical examination and a written test. Both the test will be for 50 marks each and the entire exercise of checking the paper and supervising the physical test would be conducted by experts in the field.
“The first examination will be held in May this year. It will be a bi-annual exam. The next exam will be held in October-November. The evaluation will be done by experts and based on their performance, we will decide if the prisoner is entitled for any remission,” Upadhyay explained.
