AAP to win 100 of 117 seats in Punjab: Kejriwal ||||
 Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the AAP will win 100 seats of 117 in the 2017 Punjab Assembly election. "First Captain Amarinder looted Punjab followed by Badals...we will put behind bars those involved in corruption," Kejriwal said. Those behind the desecration of the Quran and the Guru Granth Sahib will be brought to justice, he added. ||||
 Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/28d987ef-062b-4a5b-8cda-f4b449c87cee-1||||
Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that his Aam Aadmi Party will sweep at least 100 seats of 117 in Punjab in the upcoming elections. Kejriwal, who started a three-day political tour of Punjab with prayers at two famous shrines in this Sikh holy city, said he is making the claim on the basis of various surveys conducted nationwide.
Addressing a rally, the AAP convener said if his party comes to power then thos behind desecration of Quran & Guru Granth Sahib will be booked to justice. He also promised to end the menace of drugs business and mafias in Punjab within a month
"First Capt Amarinder looted Punjab followed by Badals, if AAP comes to power we will put behind bars those involved in corruption," said Kejriwal.
Watch Video: What's making news
This is Kejriwal's second tour of a longer duration to Punjab this year. He made a five-day trip to various parts of Punjab in February.
The visits are in connection with the assembly elections to be held in Punjab in February next year for which the AAP is posing a serious challenge to the ruling Akali Dal-BJP combine and the opposition Congress.
The AAP leader's visit to the state started under the shadow of an AAP legislator in Delhi, Naresh Yadav, being named in a case filed over the sacrilege of Quran, the holy book of Islam, in Punjab's Muslim dominated town of Malerkotla in Sangrur district recently.
Yadav has been booked by Punjab Police in the conspiracy behind the sacrilege incident.
The AAP legislator is the party's co-incharge for Punjab affairs. AAP leaders say the Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP alliance government of trying to implicate its leaders in false cases.
Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal on Sunday refused to be drawn into the controversy over the criminal case against the AAP legislator saying that the police were investigating the matter.
During Kejriwal's visit, the AAP leadership will focus on youth and other categories of voters in Punjab, whose 117 assembly seats go to polls early next year.
The AAP has four MPs in the Lok Sabha from Punjab. Two of them are under suspension from the party.
