Mobile van to teach disabled kids in Chandigarh ||||
 Chandigarh Administrator Kaptan Singh Solanki on Thursday flagged off a mobile van, named Kalam Express, to provide home-based education to disabled children. The van, to work six days a week, will have an educator, a physiotherapist, an LCD screen, a projector, books, and toys. Around 193 children with disabilities like autism and cerebral palsy have been identified for the service. ||||
 Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/237771be-e7e5-4412-b928-31eaf33c6377-1||||
UT administrator Kaptan Singh Solanki on Thursday flagged off a mobile van to provide home-based education to disabled children.
Named Kalam Express, the van will work six days in a week and will have an educator and a physiotherapist.
Deputy commissioner and chairman of Indian Red Cross Society, Chandigarh, Ajit Balaji Joshi said the Kalam Express will comprise an LCD screen, a visual projector, books and toys.
Watch Video: What's making news
He also said the children who cannot commute to schools to attain education will be covered under home-based education facility and they must be provided all necessary support services like therapies remediation and rehabilitation services. The van will cater to the children with special needs in peripheral, slum, rural and rehabilitation colonies.
Dr Fareja Patel, in-charge and mentor, said, “We have detected around 193 children with severe disabilities like autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation and multiple disabilities in UT Chandigarh areas.”
Kalam Express van will reach a child twice a week and more mobile units of this kind will be provided in the near future to impart such services for these children, she added.
Moreover, Indian Red Cross Society, Chandigarh has appointed an educator and a physiotherapist to teach the children with multiple disabilities. The mobile van will be available between 9am and 4pm from Monday to Saturday, in the areas of Maloya , Dhanas, Manimajra, Mauli Jagran and Bapu Dham.
Interacting with media, Kaptan Singh Solanki said that Kalam Express is a mobile school to provide home- based education to children with multiple disabilities.
