Gogoi questions source of BJP's poll expenses ||||
 Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi on Saturday called the Centre's assertion of a non-corrupt government as "just a slogan" and questioned the source of BJP's "huge" election expenses. BJP spent much more than Congress during the Assam polls, he asserted. "Who has given them so much money for election campaigning? Will someone give money without any benefit?" Gogoi further questioned. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1ca78438-4ab3-401b-a154-c9be59002f8a-1||||
One day after the BJP made a constituency-wise review of the recent Assam assembly elections (whose results will be out only on May 19), veteran Congress leader and three-time Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi on Sunday cast a shadow of suspicion on the source of BJP’s poll expenditure and wanted to know about its source.
“The amount of money involved in BJP’s poll campaign in the just-concluded assembly elections in Assam has raised a strong doubt on the source of BJP’s poll funding. The saffron party spent money like water in publicity, chopper-driven transportation and the like in the last election in Assam. Such a lavish election campaign is unimaginable without a strong corporate backing,” Gogoi, in a statement issued by the CM’s office at Guwahati said.
Gogoi also said that never before in the history of Assam did it happen that the union finance minister and foreign affairs minister visited the state and held meetings with businessmen. “The people of Assam are intelligent enough to understand the fallout of such meetings,” Gogoi said, adding that the huge amount of money spent on election campaign “must have stemmed out from black money pumped in by the sources best known to the BJP.”
“Will someone give so much of money without return benefit? The reason behind is everybody’s guess,” the chief minister said. “In view of this development, no matter what justifications come from the saffron party, the top brass of the state BJP will never be able to hoodwink the people of Assam from the real issue,” he added.
The BJP had on Saturday held a marathon seat-by-seat analysis of the just-concluded Assam assembly elections, at the end of which BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav claimed that the BJP was going to win hands down. “There is no doubt in the victory of the BJP-led alliance. We are sure of securing an absolute majority,” Madhav said.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
While the BJP had on its own fielded candidates in 89 constituencies, its ally AGP had fielded 25 and BPF 12. The BJP, which in the 2011 election had won only five seats in the 126-member Assam Assembly, in 2014 bagged seven of the state’s 14 Lok Sabha seats.
On Saturday, chief minister Gogoi had claimed that the Congress would capture power in Assam for a record fourth consecutive term. “The people have not voted for the BJP. Instead, they have once again reposed faith in the Congress party as they have been doing since 2001,” he had said.
