Arunachal verdict will protect democracy: Tuki ||||
 Former Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister and Congress leader Nabam Tuki on Thursday hailed the Supreme Court's verdict to reinstate his government in the state by saying that the order will help protect healthy democracy. Calling it a "historic" verdict, Tuki added, "BJP leaders tried to remove elected governments in states illegally...the apex court verdict has restored justice." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a0f13e4a-2849-4d19-99e4-c71fe9568c3e-1||||
With the Supreme Court ordering restoration of his government in Arunachal Pradesh, Congress leader Nabam Tuki today termed the verdict as “historic” and said it has protected democracy.
“The Supreme Court verdict today is historic. It paves way to protect healthy democracy in the country,” Tuki, who was the Chief Minister of Arunachal before his government was brought down, said.
He said the Constitution of the country and democracy have been protected.
WATCH VIDEO: Political Implications Of Supreme Court’s Arunachal Verdict
 
“BJP leaders tried to remove elected governments in states illegaly…the apex court verdict has restored justice,” Tuki said.
The Supreme Court today ordered restoration of Congress government in Arunachal Pradesh by quashing as “unconstitutional” Governor’s decision to advance the Legislative Assembly session by a month in December last.
Asked about his future course of action, Tuki said he would consult party legislators and the decision would be taken as per the court order and party ideology.
WATCH VIDEO: SC Restores Congress Rule in Arunachal, Nabam Tuki welcomes the verdict
 
Later in a post on Twitter, Tuki said, “Finally we have got justice from SC. Court has today saved this country and its Constitution.”
Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who argued for Congress leaders from Arunachal Pradesh in the Supreme Court, termed the verdict as historic and said only the judiciary can protect the value of the Constitution.
“Only the judiciary can protect the value of our Constitution and I salute the judiciary for the verdict. This really is historical,” he told PTI after the judgement.
His colleague and newly elected Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha, also a senior advocate who appeared in the matter for Congress leaders, said democracy and rule of law have been restored by the verdict.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
 
“This is an extraordinary verdict. The verdict is really historic as faith in democracy and rule of law have been restored,” Tankha said.
 
