Seven dead in Uttarakhand forest fires ||||
 Forest fires in Uttarakhand have reportedly claimed at least seven lives and destroyed 2270 hectares of jungles across several districts. As per reports, Home Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the situation on Sunday, held discussions with Uttarakhand government officials and offered Central assistance. Meanwhile, a Mi 17 chopper of the IAF has begun water sprinkling operations in Nainital. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a82bf9ed-3772-4460-aa72-9cdc5332e75b-1||||
YOU can see them from above as the plane makes its descent to Dehradun, angry red spots in a bed of green, grey smoke rising and forming a haze that is enveloping acres of forests in the hills of Uttarakhand. As the fire spreads to all corners of the state, the battle to combat the flame of the forest has intensified too.
Apart from around 9,000 forest personnel, three teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), one of the State Disaster Response Force (each team has 45 people), the police, the Army and the Air Force have all joined forces to douse the fires that started on February 2 and have affected about 2,552 hectares of forest cover so far, including the famous Corbett National Park and Rajaji National Pak. As of May 1, there have been 1,218 incidents of fire in the state, with Pauri, Nainital, Tehri and Rudraprayag being the worst-affected districts.
Two MI-17 choppers were pressed into service on Sunday to spray water over the burning forests of Nainital and Pauri.
Congress targets Centre over forest fires in Uttarakhand
Loaded with water — they have the capacity to carry about 3,000 litres each — they will continue to spray water over Almora, Chamoli and Pauri over the next few days. The IAF has also deployed another helicopter, 1 ALH, to assist the local administration.
“The MI-17 which filled water from Bhimtal lake and the one from Srinagar, Garhwal, made a couple of sorties with water but it remains to be seen how effective it is because the water doesn’t necessarily fall at the exact affected spot,” says B P Gupta, the Principal Conservator of Forests and nodal officer. “The best method of course remains the traditional one, which is beating the fire down. We are training the NDRF personnel as they have not dealt with this kind of thing before.”
The Uttarakhand High Court has asked the state government to report the extent of damage caused by the fires to it by Monday. Besides, a four-member Central team of experts has been sent, and will submit its report to the Ministry of Home Affairs within a week.
WATCH: IAF team spraying water over forest area in Srinagar & Koteshwar as #UttarakhandForestFire continues to ragehttp://t.co/Bz0n0FvPpX
— ANI (@ANI_news) May 1, 2016
WATCH: Operation underway to douse #UttarakhandForestFire which has now spread across 2270 hectares of forest areahttp://t.co/CHO3FPjmj7
— ANI (@ANI_news) May 1, 2016
Caused either intentionally or due to negligence, forest fires are an yearly summer phenomenon in Uttarakhand — as in other hill states —but the absence of winter rains, intermittent April rains and less humidity made it a lethal cocktail this year. Villagers are said to often set fire to leaves and the ground in order to get a good cover of grass the following year and to get rid of the slippery chir pine needles that are highly combustible.
WATCH: IAF fight to douse Uttarakhand forest fire 
Besides fighting the flames, active fire spots are also being identified with the help of satellite data so that the choppers can rush straight to the spot and take corrective steps speedily, he said.
Almora: Visuals of #UttarakhandForestFire, 2270 hectares of forest area across 5 districts of Uttarakhand affected pic.twitter.com/fIkqiWDI7X
— ANI (@ANI_news) May 1, 2016
There have also been allegations of the timber mafia burning down the forests. “Instances where fires have been started by the timber mafia may be there but are very few. Where we have come to know of such cases, we have registered cases. We have not been caught unprepared, it’s just that the intensity of the fire is very strong this time,” says Gupta.
With most of these fires raging in remote areas, accessibility also remains a huge problem. However, questions continue to be raised over the administration’s preparedness and also the need for long-term solutions for an old problem. “Since we had no rain since September, the fires started early this year, in the beginning of February. We could all see them. Helicopters and all are fine in crisis but leaves and chir pine needles should have been cleared in time. Also, there are processes to get electricity from chir pine needles. Those should be explored so that they can be used and not burnt to get rid off,” says Nainital-based historian and writer Shekhar Pathak, who has done exhaustive research on the Himalayas.
“In many cases, the forests start from the reserve forests and spread to the panchayat forests. It has to be a united effort that includes the forest department and people. After all, people depend on the forests for their livelihood and it is in their interests to protect the forests,” adds Pathak, citing the case of Gajwada village in Pauri where seven villagers died in 2009 trying to control the fires that had overrun their panchayat forests.
Near Purkul, a team of 10 is hard at work at the Forest Fire Protection Master Control Room. Raj Kumar Saini, who is manning the wireless, takes a call that informs him of a fire in Surasoon village in Tehri. “Our master station, which falls in the Mussoorie division, works in two ways. We have about 30 crew stations spread across the division with one member each. Every day at 12 pm, they call us and give us the temperature and humidity in their area and we then tell them what the fire hazard is in those conditions. We also receive calls informing us of forest fires,” says Gautam Chettri, beat area in charge.
The station, that works 24×7 in the peak fire months from mid-February to mid-June, has been getting about a call or two every day.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
