CAG starts audit of Delhi International Airport ||||
 The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has started auditing the accounts of Delhi International Airport (DIAL) and Airports Authority of India, amid concerns of alleged irregularities in the leasing of land for the airport. The CAG's 2011 audit report had detected a loss of 1.63 lakh crore to the government because land was leased to DIAL allegedly at "throwaway" prices. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/62e9f81c-4fe2-4476-bf2c-a7dc46dc0961-1||||
"irregularities"
New Delhi, Jun 26 (PTI) Government auditor CAG has started auditing the books of GMR consortium-led DIAL and state-owned Airports Authority of India, amid concerns of alleged irregularities in the leasing of land for the international aerodrome here.
Delhi International Airport (P) Ltd (DIAL) is a joint venture in which 64 per cent is owned by diversified group GMR. The state-owned Airports Authority of India (AAI) has 26 per cent shareholding and the remaining 10 per cent is with Germany's Fraport.
"The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) audit of the accounts of DIAL and AAI has started. It is in progress," Civil Aviation Secretary R N Choubey told PTI.
The Civil Aviation Ministry had sought audit and all documents required for the exercise were submitted by DIAL to AAI, he added.
The CAG had conducted an audit of the Delhi Airport in 2011 as well.
Under the joint venture agreement for the Delhi airport, AAI is entitled to 46 per cent share in the revenue of DIAL.
The audit comes against the backdrop of Income Tax Department looking into alleged financial irregularities and suspected tax evasion in the DIAL-AAI deal.
In this respect, the Income Tax department, on June 22, carried out searches in half-a-dozen cities.
Prior to starting the audit, there had been differences between GMR Infrastructure and AAI over the accounts getting audited by CAG.
On February 25, the government informed the Lok Sabha that AAI had sought documents from its joint venture partners -- GMR and GVK -- for a CAG audit of the books of accounts of the Delhi and Mumbai airports.
