Faced casting couch down South: Surveen Chawla ||||
 Actress Surveen Chawla has admitted that she "faced casting couch" in the South Indian film industry, but not in Bollywood. The 'Hate Story 2' actress also said that she has never been "desperate about work". "I am too much in love with my dignity and self respect. Work will bring me work and that's my motto," she added. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/e5c5b1f3-6668-47e0-8af2-09cbb18191e9-1||||
While most of the celebrities shy away from talking about casting couch, actor Surveen Chawla admits that she witnessed such things in the southern film industry but not in Bollywood.
She has worked in a lot of southern movies like Moondru Per Moondru Kadhal (Tamil), Paramesha Panwala (Kannada) and Raju Maharaju(Telugu) to name a few.
ALSO READ: Aamir Khan introduces his champion daughters in new poster of Dangal WATCH: Sonakshi Sinha kick some serious butt in new film Akira
Surveen in an interview to the IANS said, "I feel very great that I have not encountered this (casting couch) here (Bollywood). I have faced this (casting couch) down south and of course I refused to give into that...Honestly I can only comment on it If I had encountered it in Bollywood. I don't know if I should call it sheer luck."
The Ugly actor says she has never really been "desperate about work", but has been "desiring about work".
"But I am not desperate to give in to anything to barter myself in exchange of work...I am too much in love with my dignity and self respect. Work will bring me work and that's my motto," she added.
About Bollywood, the actor says that casting couch existed decades ago.
"In my experience I can only comment on what I have been through. I have not had one single influence of casting couch, which goes a lot to say about the progress that Bollywood has made," she added.
The 31-year-old star says filmmakers have gone ahead of this and want to cast people on the basis of talent.
"And that's the right way, people wanting to give in to such demands only makes things worse for people," she said.
Surveen Chawla feels that Bollywood has progressed.
"I think there are far more stronger women and makers who understand that their love is to make cinema and whoever fits well should be a part. So it is a great progression Bollywood has made," she said.
