I am not bothered: Deepika on xXx trailer ||||
 Reacting to her "barely-there appearance" in the first trailer of 'xXx: The Return of Xander Cage', actress Deepika Padukone said that she is "not bothered" as "it is just the first trailer". "There is more than six months to go. Be patient, just wait and watch... slowly and slowly more will be unveiled, Deepika added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1555bcba-05c8-492b-b380-77315fcf4911-1||||
Her barely-there appearance in the first teaser-trailer of her Hollywood debut xXx: The Return of Xander Cage may have left fans disappointed but actress Deepika Padukone has assured that there is more to be unveiled in the coming days.
The 1 minute 24 seconds teaser video of the film, which was released yesterday (July 20), was dominated by Vin Diesel, Samuel L Jackson and features Deepika wielding a gun and spinning a blade in not more than three shots.
We were waiting desperately for xXx: The Return of Xander Cage trailer. Why? Deepika Padukone, of course. The Hollywood debut of our Bollywood star starring Vin Diesel, was soon be out and this would be the big break we were hoping for.
Imagine our shock when the xXx trailer finally landed on Wednesday (July 20) morning. Yes, there is Vin Diesel and he is playing a “different kind of soldier” to justify the world we are living in today. In this action-packed trailer Vin Diesel is taking on threats “we don’t even know exist”. As expected, it is an out-and-out Vin Diesel vehicle.
The 30-year-old Bajirao Mastani actress, who was in the capital to attend a fashion show, asked her fans to be patient and not jump to conclusions as there is a lot of time left till the film’s release.
“There is more than six months to go. Be patient, just wait and watch. Every few days we will be putting up a new campaign. It is also the return of the film after many years, return of Xander Cage (Diesel), and that is what it is. But slowly and slowly more will be unveiled,” Deepika said.
The action film directed by D J Caruso, also stars Donnie Yen, Ruby Rose, Nina Dobrev and Rory McCann. It is the third film in the xXx franchise. Earlier films are 2002 movie “xXx” and “xXx: State of the Union” released in 2005.
xXx: The Return of Xander Cage will hit theatres on January 20, 2017.
Watch: 		
