Reliance Jio to co-sponsor Indian Rio contingent ||||
 Reliance Jio, the digital services wing of Reliance Industries, has signed up as Principal Partner of Indias contingent at the Rio Olympics, which begin on August 5. Earlier, dairy giant Amul was also signed up as sponsor for the Indian contingent. India is sending 121 athletes to the Rio Olympics, making it the largest contingent for the country in history. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/887ef512-f161-4da1-b31c-4b47126c4903-1||||
The Rio bound Indian Olympic contingent will be sponsored by ‘Reliance Jio’, the digital services arm of Reliance Industries Limited, which has won the rights to be the ‘Principal Partner’ at the quadrennial extravaganza.
This is yet another key milestone in the company’s endeavour to empower and support national sporting talents.
Olympic Games is the single largest global sports event and Reliance Jio’s partnership with IOA is an expression of our nation’s unwavering faith for our sporting heroes.
Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) has a long cherished history of its association with sports in India, promoting and developing various disciplines over the last three decades.
In the past seven years, the corporate and its joint venture partner IMG Worldwide have worked closely with the Football and Basketball federations in India.
In addition, the CSR arm of the company – Reliance Foundation, has been progressively running multi year grassroots development programs in football and basketball under Reliance Foundation Young Champs and Reliance Foundation Junior NBA initiatives, introducing over half a million children to sports and providing enhanced training through robust scouting programs.
WATCH VIDEO: How To Get A Reliance Jio 4G Sim
 
Commenting on the association, Reliance Jio spokesperson said,”Reliance Jio is honoured to be part of India’s largest ever contingent for the Olympic Games 2016. Our association with Indian Olympic contingent is a natural progression stemming from our corporate philosophy of unwavering faith and belief in today’s young generation, and empowering them through sports.
“Each one of these athletes qualified to represent India at Olympic Games, is our national hero. The Reliance family, on behalf of its 1.3 billion countrymen wishes our athletes the very best.”
