Islamic State calls on members to attack Russia ||||
 Islamic State has called on its members to attack Russia in a nine-minute video uploaded on YouTube. Addressing Russia's President Vladimir Putin, a masked man in the video said, "Will kill you at your homes...Oh Brothers, carry out jihad...and fight them". This comes while Russia and US are in talks to boost coordination in the fight against ISIS in Syria. ||||
 Reuters ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/e1aaae83-aa49-4eaa-a08a-1a4be5eb064f-1||||
CAIRO Islamic State called on its group members to carry out jihad in Russia in a nine-minute YouTube video on Sunday.
"Listen Putin, we will come to Russia and will kill you at your homes ... Oh Brothers, carry out jihad and kill and fight them," a masked man driving a car in the desert yelled while wagging his finger in the last couple of minutes of the video.
MORE FROM REUTERS:
Uber waves white flag in China
Tesla buys sister firm SolarCity, sending both shares down
Shackled remains at ancient Greek site tell tale of intrigue
The video with subtitles showed footage of armed men attacking armored vehicles and tents and collecting arms in the desert. "Breaking into a barrack of the Rejectionist military on the international road south Akashat," read one subtitle.
It was not immediately possible to independently verify the video but the link to the footage was published on a Telegram messaging account used by the militant group.
It was not immediately clear why Russia would be a target, but Russia and the U.S. are talking about boosting military and intelligence cooperation against Islamic State and al Qaeda in Syria.
Islamic State has called on its supporters to take action with any available weapons targeting countries it has been fighting.
There has been a string of deadly attacks claimed by Islamic state in Europe over the past weeks. Last week, assailants loyal to Islamic State forced an elderly Catholic priest in France to his knees before slitting his throat. Since the mass killing in Nice, southern France on July 14, there have been four incidents in Germany, including the most recent suicide bombing at a concert in Ansbach.
 
 
(Reporting by Ali Abdelatti writing by Amina Ismail; Writing by Amina Ismail; Editing by Alison Williams and Marguerita Choy)
