Home Ministry approves new Model Prison Manual ||||
 A new Model Prison Manual, that aims to bring uniformity in rules and regulations governing the administration and management of prisons and prisoners across the country, has been approved by Home Minister Rajnath Singh. Allowing a final meeting between the prisoners on death row and their family, and providing prisoners with health evaluations are the key provisions in the manual. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/39947759-0009-0001-7764-000012345678||||
Jail authorities will facilitate and allow a final meeting between prisoners on death row and their family and provide them legal aid at all stages, even after rejection of mercy petitions, and regular physical and mental health evaluation. These are among the key revisions in the new Model Prison Manual, approved by Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh.
Comprising 32 chapters, the manual prescribes procedures and channels through which mercy petitions are to be submitted, their rejections communicated, and necessary documents such as court papers and judgments furnished to prisoners on death row.
Revisions in the manual aim at bringing “basic uniformity in laws, rules and regulations governing the administration of prisons and the management of prisoners all over the country”. They call for access to free legal services to inmates from poor and weaker sections of the society, appointment of advocates visiting jails, setting up of a legal aid clinic in every prison, legal literacy classes in prisons, constitution of undertrial review committees and provisions to ensure legal services for undertrials who have undergone half of the maximum sentence for that offence.
The revised manual also focuses on after-care services such as the State’s responsibility in devising and developing mechanism for rehabilitation of released convicts. Special discharged prisoners’ aftercare and rehabilitation committees should be set up at the district or state level to plan and devise appropriate mechanisms for rehabilitation and aftercare, it says. Among additional provisions for women prisoners are comprehensive health screening, including tests to determine presence of sexually transmitted or blood-borne diseases, mental health concerns, or existence of drug dependence.
Other such provisions call for making the jail staff sensitive to and trained on gender issues and sexual violence, educating women on preventive healthcare measures; enabling proper counselling and treatment for those suffering from psychological disorders, and focussed aftercare and rehabilitation measures to ease reintegration of women prisoners into the society.
The manual lays down restrictions on certain kinds of punishments being awarded to women — for instance, pregnant women and women with infants should not be sent to closed confinement as punishment. Counselling programmes focused on women, especially those who have been victims of abuse, and focus on removing further damage that imprisonment may have on a woman inmate are also prescribed under the revised rules.
Humane Rules
> Aftercare panels to plan and devise mechanisms for rehabilitation of inmates.
> Making jail staff sensitive to gender issues and sexual violence.
