Over 40 Pune hostel girls fall sick after dinner ||||
 Over 40 residents of Pune's Sevasadan Girls Hostel were hospitalised at midnight on Sunday due to food poisoning. The girls said they had cluster beans on Saturday for dinner and complained of indigestion before starting to vomit. They are out of danger and have been responding well to treatment. Hospital officials said the girls will be discharged soon. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/83121322-0007-0012-2898-000012345678||||
OVER 40 occupants of Sevasadan Girls’ Hostel on Laxmi Road were rushed to nearby hospitals at midnight due to food poisoning on Sunday. The girls, aged between 10 and 16 years, reportedly complained of indigestion after Saturday’s dinner and started vomiting soon after.
The hostel authorities admitted 27 girls at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital in Kothrud; while 16 were admitted at Manohar Joshi Memorial (MJM) hospital on Ghole Road early in the morning. The girls responded well to the treatment and are out of danger, said the authorities at both the hospitals.
According to the medical staff at MJM hospital, four girls were brought in at 3.30 am as their symptoms were severe, while the remaining 12 were brought in at 5.30 am. “When we enquired about their food, the girls said that they had cluster beans for dinner and no unusual food ingredient was consumed. It is difficult to say whether it was due to an external element, stale food or any other reason at the present moment. But we suspect it is the case of gastroenteritis, which is not a rare occurrence. Their health is improving quickly and all of them are expected to be discharged by tonight or tomorrow morning,” said an official at MJM hospital.
Commenting on the incident, Chintamani Patwardhan, Administrative Officer and Committee member of Sevasadan, said, “We were equally shocked by the incident. The girls had the meal in the afternoon too and were doing fine. There was no new food ingredient added to the dinner. Cluster beans are cooked regularly. Besides this, there was roti, daal and rice.” Patwardhan added that the school is going to set up an inquiry into the matter to find out the cause of the food poisoning, after all the girls are discharged. “We came to the hospital with the girls at 5.30 in the morning and it is our responsibility to make sure that they are in good health. Only after all the girls are discharged, we can set up an inquiry,” said Patwardhan.
