AAP MLA booked in Punjab Quran desecration case ||||
 An Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Delhi, Naresh Yadav, was on Saturday named in an FIR registered in connection with a recent Quran desecration case in Punjab's Sangrur district. This comes after one of the accused, Vijay Kumar, reportedly said he had desecrated the holy book at Yadav's behest as he was offered a sum of 1 crore. ||||
 Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/cacc9e07-04eb-426b-8a8d-595465996541-1||||
Ahead of  Arvind Kejriwal’s three-day visit to Punjab beginning Sunday, the Aam Aadmi Party’s MLA from Mehrauli (South) in Delhi, Naresh Yadav, was on Saturday named in an FIR related to a recent case of ‘desecration’ of the Quran.
The Sangrur police booked Yadav after the alleged mastermind in the case, Vijay Kumar, told the police that he ‘desecrated the Quran’ at the behest of Yadav and was offered Rs 1 crore.
Earlier, the police had arrested three men - Vijay Kumar, Nand Kishore Goldy and Gaurav - who have confessed to their role in the incident on June 24. The police had claimed that Vijay Kumar wanted to “take revenge for the Dinanagar and Pathankot terror attacks’ and that he told them (police) that he ‘hated Pakistan and Muslims.”
Watch Video: What's making news
Nand Kishore, who is zonal secretary of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) in Pathankot, along with his son Gaurav, had allegedly “helped” Vijay Kumar in the conspiracy.
During raids in Delhi, the police had also recovered an Audi car belonging to Vijay Kumar in which another bundle of “torn pages” of the Quran were found. There was arson in Malerkotla on the night of June 24 after pages of Quran were found dumped near a drain on Khanna Road. A mob allegedly barged into the residential premises of Akali Dal MLA Farzana Alam and and damaged her vehicle, leading to tension in the area. The mob also exchanged gunfire with the police, leaving many injured. A private bus was torched.
Sangrur Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Pritpal Singh Thind told The Sunday Express that Vijay Kumar has also claimed that on June 24 before he (Kumar) left for Malerkotla from Delhi, he had a meeting with Yadav.’
“Vijay Kumar has claimed that he was offered Rs 1 crore for tearing pages of Quran and throwing them near a drain on Khanna Road in Malerkotla. Their plan was also to desecrate a Hindu holy book next,” said Thind.
The police added that they (the suspects) were yet to receive any money. Vijay Kumar also claimed to the police that Yadav had told them that motive of the move was to create communal tension in Punjab and instigate people against the state government.
“Vijay Kumar told us that Yadav told him that AAP wants to win Punjab 2017 polls by hook or crook. Thus, their plan was to instigate people on communal lines so that they vent their anger against SAD-BJP and Congress and vote for AAP in next polls. According to Vijay, the MLA told him that if they complete this ‘Quran task’ well, they were to be given more assignments,” said SSP Thind.
The police have now booked Yadav under sections 109 (Punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment) and 153-A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of IPC.
“We will be seeking an arrest warrant for Yadav from the court,” said Thind.
The AAP described the action as political vendetta. Alleging that the SAD-BJP in Punjab had gone ‘berserk’, AAP national spokesperson Sanjay Singh told The Sunday Express, “Akali Dal-BJP baukhla gaye hain. Inhe apni haar saaf saaf nazar aa rahi hai. Isiliye hamare MLA ko fasaya jaa raha hai. (SAD-BJP have gone berserk. They can see their defeat clearly in the upcoming polls, so our MLA is being falsely implicated to defame AAP). It is political vendetta.”
Yadav refuted all allegations, saying, “I don’t know this Vijay Kumar.” “The allegations are baseless and part of a conspiracy. I do not even know the details of this case yet,” claimed Yadav.
