BSF jawan detained for cross-border smuggling ||||
 A BSF jawan posted in Rajasthan has been arrested for aiding smugglers bring in arms and drugs from Pakistan into India in return for money, said reports on Saturday. A drug smuggling syndicate was earlier busted by the Punjab police, and it was found that one of the alleged drug smugglers had been in contact with the jawan. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/48921167-0014-0001-5653-000012345678||||
A Border Security Force Jawan has been arrested for allegedly helping smugglers in cross-border smuggling of drugs and ammunitions, Punjab police said on Saturday.
The accused has been identified as Anil Kumar, a Jawan with 52 Battalion, posted in Rajasthan, a senior Punjab Police official said.
“Anil Kumar, 29, has been arrested from Rai Singh Nagar in Sriganganagar in Rajasthan,” said Mohali SSP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar.
Kumar, who joined BSF in 2008, allegedly used to help smugglers in smuggling of drugs like heroin and arms and ammunitions from Pakistan in lieu of money, he said.
The police also found transfer of “ill-gotten” money in his bank accounts. “BSF jawan was made first payment of Rs 50,000 and then Rs 39,000 which was transferred into his wife’s bank account in lieu of cross-border smuggling,” SSP said.
The alleged involvement of BSF Jawan came to light following questioning of a drug smuggler, Gurjant Singh alias Bholu who along with his two associates was arrested on January 4 from Kharar here.
Bholu was in contact with Kumar through social networking site ‘Facebook’ and messaging service ‘WhatsApp’ for taking his help in cross-border smuggling of weapons and drugs from Pakistan, SSP said.
Bholu was also already in contact with Pakistan based smuggler identified as Imtiaz, who used to send delivery of drugs and arms and ammunitions, police said.
Last week, Punjab police had claimed to have busted a drug smuggling syndicate and arrested three persons from near here, and recovered Pakistani SIM card, mobiles, weapons and ammunition from their possession.
Besides, Bholu, two others who were arrested were Sandip Singh and Jatinder Singh alias Jindi.
Police have recovered one stengun of .9 mm, two pistols, two pistols .30 bore, one airgun, 190 live cartridges, 31 mobile phones, one Pakistani mobile sim card and one car from them.
Meanwhile, police also arrested one person identified as Deepak Kumar, resident of Ludhiana, who was allegedly involved in making fake driving licenses of Gurjant Singh and his associates.
