Vijayan to be the next CM of Kerala: Report ||||
 Pinarayi Vijayan will reportedly be the next CM of Kerala after the CPM Secretariat and party's Kerala Committee on Friday nominated him in the presence of General Secretary Sitaram Yechury. He was chosen over former Chief Minister VS Achuthanandan. "The party had decided to pick Vijayan as legislature party leader considering Achuthanandans advanced age and poor health", said Yechury. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/762e0b6d-0dd8-42e9-ab3f-4285ed4c4472-1||||
Pinarayi Vijayan, a Politburo member and MLA from Dharmadam, will be the next chief minister of Kerala.
The CPM secretariat and the state party committee met in Thiruvananthapuram earlier today in the presence of general secretary Sitaram Yechury and nominated Vijayan as the next chief minister of the state. 93-year-old CPI(M) veteran V S Achutanandan, who was also in the race for the post, was called to the state secretariat
and informed about the decision. He soon left for his Cantonment house.
Soon after the decision to nominate Vijayan to the CM’s post became known, party workers at AKG Bhavan started celebrations and began distributing sweets.
Achuthanandan, 92, elected from Malampuzha constituency, had told reporters earlier that he was ready to become chief minister if the party nods in his favour. Achuthanandan, who led the LDF election campaign in the state, is popular among the masses and is a former chief minister of the state. But this time, the state leadership was in favour of Vijayan, who is the only politburo member to be elected to the state assembly.
Also read: 92-year-old VS delivers 91
In results declared on Thursday, the CPM-led LDF made a sweeping comeback to power, capturing 91 of the state’s 140 seats and crushing the Congress-led UDF. The BJP, which had made the electoral contest a triangular one in several constituencies, was able to open its account for the first time in the state Assembly.
Also read: Kerala cant paper over Bengal cracks, says CPM
For the Congress, anti-incumbency sentiments proved to be too heavy after a barrage of corruption allegations rocking the party’s five year term. Outgoing chief minister Oommen Chandy submitted his resignation earlier today to Governor P Sathasivam.
