Army's Western Command launches think tank ||||
 The Armys Western Command on Saturday launched Gyan Chakra, a think tank aimed at allowing retired military officers to pursue research on strategic and national security issues. Around 70 army veterans and serving officers have taken up its membership so far. A seminar on 'Social Media' and a Military Literary Festival have also been proposed to be held in June. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/e5e485e3-b9ca-4925-a50a-1631a3de74f3-1||||
The Army’s Western Command Saturday launched Gyan Chakra, a thinktank aimed at providing an outlet to retired military officers for pursuing research on strategic and national security issues.
The Gyan Chakra was inaugurated by the GOC-in-C Western Command Lt General K J Singh in the midst of Army Commanders’ Conclave.
At the programme, the GOC-in-C presented the future vision and developments for the Western Command with particular reference to issues of veterans in the presence of Ex- Army Commanders and a large gathering of serving and retired officers.
Among the retired officers present were Lt Gen SK Sinha, Lt Gen HB Kala, Gen J J Singh, Lt Gen SS Sangra, Lt Gen HRS Mann, Lt Gen HS Panag, Lt Gen Amar Aul, Lt Gen BKN Chhibber, Lt Gen JS lidder and Brig KS Kahlon.
Speaking to the media, Lt General K J Singh said that since a large population of veterans including senior officers are residing in Tricity, there was a need to generate new ideas on national security and defence related issues for the benefit of the society. Singh added that the vast experience of these veteran officers could be of great help in this regard. The think tank has been set up near Khetarpal Officers’ Institute.
Gyan Chakra will offer facilities for research, conference hall, a well stocked library and internet with dedicated staff. Around 70 veterans and serving officers have taken up membership as of now, the Army Commander mentioned in his speech and urged more veterans to come forward and avail the facility. A daylong seminar on “Social Media” and ‘Military Literary Festival’ was also proposed to be held on June 25 and 26 respectively.
The institute also plans to will exchange programmes with other similar institutes like United Service Institute of India, Centre for Land Warfare Studies in New Delhi and defence and strategic affairs departments of various universities in the region.
