Sunanda died of overdose of Alprax: AIIMS report ||||
 According to a report by an AIIMS medical board, Sunanda Pushkar died due to the overdose of Alprax, an anti-anxiety drug. The Indian Express has reported that the recovery of 27 empty Alprax tablets and FBI report revealing the drug's presence in her body, bed cover and sheet confirmed that the death is due to "excessive ingestion of tablet alprazolam". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/44759421-0006-0001-7590-000012345678||||
Sunanda Pushkar, wife of Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, died of poisoning due to an overdose of the anti-anxiety drug Alprax, an AIIMS medical board has said in its report. The Indian Express had reported this as the likely cause of her death on January 16.
Sunanda Pushkar may have died of Alprax overdose, FBI reports
The medical board has “unanimously” concluded that the cause of death was poisoning. “… The circumstantial recovery of empty Alprax tablets (27 tablets) and report of FBI, which shows that presence of Alprax in stomach and its contents, spleen, liver, half of each kidney, blood sample, as well as urine wet clothing, bed cover and bed sheet, confirmed the death due to ‘excessive ingestion of tablet alprazolam’,” states the report.
The board has also asked the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing her death to investigate if any person in access of “insulin or hypoglycemic agent” was present in the vicinity of The Leela Palace on January 17, 2014 — the day Pushkar was found dead in a room of the hotel. This information to the SIT is on the basis of the presence of an injection mark on her body, said sources.
According to the sources, the medical board, which analysed the findings of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on Pushkar’s viscera samples, submitted its fourth subsequent opinion to the SIT on January 12.
The medical board’s report states that the FBI reported the presence of lidocaine, an antiarrhythmic drug of heart which may cause fatality if administered intravenously. “This requires further legal investigation as there was presence of injection mark over body of Pushkar and there were several reported cases of homicide by lidocaine poisoning. There were 15 injuries in all, caused 12 hours before her death. One of the injuries, number 12, was caused by a teeth bite,” adds the report.
The medical board has also stated Pushkar was discharged in a perfectly healthy condition on January 14, 2014, from Kerala Institute Medical Sciences, and was never diagnosed as a case of lupus despite thorough investigation in several laboratories.
On an email claiming Pushkar had lupus and was consulting a doctor practising in Dubai, the medical board has stated it was a “desperate effort to mislead the investigation by a doctor who is not even a specialist of lupus and merely a child specialist”.
Over the theory of ‘polonium poisoning’, the board said their earlier opinion report on September 27, 2014, had mentioned certain poisons such as thallium, polonium-210, nerium oleander cannot be detected by their forensic labs” “The tests of thallium and other heavy metal, snake venom and photo-labile poisons were not performed by the FBI,” it said.
