BJP veterans meet to discuss Azad's suspension ||||
 BJP's veteran leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Yashwant Sinha, and Shanta Kumar met on Thursday to discuss the party's disciplinary action on MP Kirti Azad. One of the veteran leaders, who was not named, reportedly said that Azad's suspension should have been discussed within the party beforehand. Azad was suspended over his remarks on alleged corruption in the DDCA. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/32266445-0008-0012-3440-000012345678||||
THE BJP continued to face political turbulence over the ouster of MP Kirti Azad, with the veterans who took on the party leadership last month meeting again on Thursday to discuss the disciplinary action. One of them later told The Indian Express that Azad’s suspension was “a hurried move”.
The veterans — L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Shanta Kumar and Yashwant Sinha — did not issue a statement like they did on November 10 when they attacked the leadership in the wake of the poll debacle in Bihar. But one of the four, who did not wish to be named, said: “It (Azad’s ouster) should have been discussed, along with related issues, at a party forum beforehand. The procedure laid for the purpose ought to have been followed.”
He also criticised “the absence of an intra-party dialogue”.
Watch Video:Why BJP Suspended Kirti Azad & What It Means 

Sources said that while it was premature to assume that the four would seek a meeting of the Margdarshak Mandal on Azad’s ouster or collectively intervene in the matter, they were “not likely to be silent spectators to what was going on”.
Advani and Joshi are members of the mandal, which also includes Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Rajnath Singh. Azad was suspended on Wednesday for “anti-party activities” with party president Amit Shah telling him he had “colluded with Opposition parties including the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party with the sole purpose of embarrassing the party and its office bearers”.
Apart from a series of statements within and outside parliament, Azad had held a press conference last Sunday, highlighting alleged corruption in the DDCA which Jaitley headed for 13 years until 2013.
On Diwali eve, following the election rout in Bihar, the BJP veterans had jointly stated that the party was being “forced to kow-tow to a handful”, its “consensual character” had been “destroyed,” and that it had been “emasculated” in the last year.
On Thursday, however, the leaders maintained silence over the latest meeting that took place after Advani, Kumar and Sinha drove down to Joshi’s Raisina Road residence around noon. Following a huddle for close to an hour, Kumar said, “We met, we had tea.”
Sources close to the leaders said they were unhappy with the leadership for not “responding positively” to the issues raised by them earlier. Several BJP leaders had stated that their concerns would be addressed and there would be a platform to raise such concerns, but nothing had happened so far, they said.
The veterans also felt that the winter session of parliament was wasted on issues like The National Herald case and the DDCA issue, which sidelined more important issues such as the climate deal in Paris and the agrarian crisis in the country, sources said.
Also on Thursday, Azad appeared to have gained support from another BJP leader Subramanian Swamy whose tweets included a reference to “mentoring Kirti”. Azad told reporters in Ahmedabad that Swamy would help him draft his reply to the suspension notice from BJP president Amit Shah.
Swamy tweeted: “Kirti issues are 1 – is cricket affair within the purview of party discipline. 2 — due to SC case on BCCI, is party decision amenable in court”.
In another tweet, he attacked Congress sympathisers on social media for interpreting his earlier tweet as an attack on Jaitley. He posted: “…Now I am mentoring Kirti and they tweet it is a vendetta against AJ”.
