Pak Army Chief dismisses 11 officers over graft ||||
 Pakistani Army Chief General Raheel Sharif has dismissed 11 officers, including two Generals, on charges of corruption. A Lieutenant General, one Major General, five Brigadiers, three Colonels and one Major were dismissed, security officials said. This comes after the Army Chief had said, "across the board accountability is necessary for the solidarity, integrity and prosperity of Pakistan". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/27228303-0012-0004-1430-000012345678||||
Pakistan’s two senior Generals were among 11 top officers dismissed by Army Chief General Raheel Sharif on charges of corruption, a rare move in the country where the military wields enormous power.
A Lieutenant General, one Major General, five Brigadiers, three Colonels and one Major were dismissed by the Army Chief on corruption charges, security officials said.
Two soldiers were also dismissed on similar charges.
Gen Raheel’s move came days after he demanded “across the board accountability”, saying the ongoing war against terrorism and extremism cannot bring enduring peace and stability unless the menace of corruption is not uprooted.
“Therefore, across the board accountability is necessary for the solidarity, integrity and prosperity of Pakistan,” he had said.
So far no official announcement was made but all local TV channels also reported the sacking of the officers.
Gen Raheel’s move to dismissed the top officers assume significance in the wake of raging scandal in Pakistan over embattled Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s family offshore wealth after the Panama Papers leak mentioned his children’s name for having shell companies.
Sharif’s two sons and one daughter were mentioned in the Panama papers for offshore account and companies.
Opposition leaders have demanded a probe into the scandal, with some demanding Sharif’s resignation.
It is believed that decision by the Army Chief may have impact on the political government and demand of Sharif’s resignation might increase.
Pakistan Army is a powerful institution and has ruled the country for more than half of its history since Pakistan was created in 1947.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
