CAD may dip below 1% this fiscal: Subramanian ||||
 Chief Economic Advisor Arvind Subramanian on Wednesday said India's Current Account Deficit might dip below 1% in the current fiscal owing to low global crude prices. The increase in gold prices will not affect CAD as gold imports are worth less than half of oil imports, he said. CAD is the net difference between outflows and inflows of foreign currencies. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/40c890fc-335d-4fe7-a64a-e9fbeb3001a9-1||||
Hyderabad, Jun 29 (PTI) Current Account Deficit may dip below 1 per cent in FY17 owing to low global crude prices, while the Brexit is likely to impact India as the global economy will slow down after Britain's decision to leave the EU, Chief Economic Advisor Arvind Subramanian said today.
"In Economic Survey we had forecast (growth rate of 7-7.5 per cent) and I think broadly we are going to stick to that. As I said there is going to be Brexit and offsetting factors like good monsoons, let's see how it works out. At the moment we are not revising the forecast (of GDP growth).
"CAD will be very manageable. Hopefully it will be within 1 per cent of GDP. Especially with oil prices coming down and that's good," the CEA told reports on the sidelines of a programme here.
CAD is the net difference between outflows and inflows of foreign currencies.
"It (Monsoon) is spreading reasonably well I think. In July we are expecting really good rains. That's when the all the planting happens on the whole hoping for good agricultural karif production with the monsoon," he further said.
He said though the price of gold is surging, it may not have an impact on the overall CAD as the yellow metal imports constitutes less than half of the oil import bill resulting a in net positive affect.
"So if oil prices go down, gold goes up by similar amount. The net will be quite positive and second the gold price effect should unwind itself as well because there is always a broad correlation that when the dollar goes up commodity prices come down," he further said.
Subramanian was in the city to deliver a lecture at CR Rao Advanced Institute of Mathematics, Statistics and Computer Science at University of Hyderabad.
Earlier in an interactive session, he said Brexit may slow down the word economy and it may impact India also.
"It is a landmark development in many ways. It is going to have ripples around the world. People are very anxiously looking at whether in the US election also something similar might happen.
From India's point of view it is significant in economic terms because one thing is the world economy might slow down as  result of this which of course then impact India," he said.
