Poor drunkards akin to "naali ka keeda": Court ||||
 A Jaipur court on Saturday termed poor drunkards who beat up their wives as naali ka keeda (gutter bugs) after it sentenced a 35-year-old laborer to 10 years imprisonment for abetting his wife's suicide. The court added that people like the accused laborer drank the whole day, did nothing and would beat up their wives and torture their children. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/29504877-0007-0002-0267-000012345678||||
A judge here sentenced a 35-year-old man to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for abetting his wife’s suicide, ruling that he represented a class of drinkers who were poor, “naali ka keeda” and who drank excessively and beat their wives and children, as opposed to the “rich” drinkers who used alcohol as a medicine and drank in moderation to sleep better.
Nafees, a daily wage labourer, was found guilty of abetting the suicide of his 28-year-old wife Aabida and was fined Rs 50,000 besides a sentence of 10 years behind bars.
In her order, additional sessions judge Rekha Rathore noted: “In the eye of the court, there are two kinds of drinkers. Those who drink English liquor, have enough money and use alcohol as a medicine. They have a peg or two, eat and go off to sleep quietly. On the other hand are those who turn into naali ka keeda on drinking. They remain drowned in alcohol all the time, don’t do any work, go home drunk and beat up their wives and torture their children. Nafees seems to be from this category. Wives of people from this category are often troubled. These people neither live in peace themselves, nor do they let their wives and children live in peace.”
The incident occurred on an April evening in 2012, when Nafees came home drunk and had an altercation with his wife Aabida when she protested.
“You can go die if you want but I will not quit drinking, he told me. Our scuffle escalated…he poured kerosene over me and I set myself on fire,” Aabida said in her statement to the police at the Sawai Mansingh Hospital’s burn ward the next day.
Having sustained 75 per cent burns, the 28-year-old succumbed a few days later.
Judge Rathore, in her 33 page order passed on January 25, found that the victim and her husband belonged to the lower middle income group, with their family comprising four children besides several other relatives who served as prosecution witnesses.
Married for 11 years, Nafees’ alcoholism was reportedly a perpetual thorn in the couple’s relationship and daily life.
The judge also advised the District Legal Services Authority to arrange for a compensation to be paid to Aabida’s children under Section 357 of the CrPC.
