File report on odd-even rule: Delhi HC to AAP ||||
 Based on three public interest litigations (PIL), Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government to file a status report on the first five days of the odd-even car rule along with pollution data to check its impact. While one PIL challenged the exemption of women and two-wheelers, another one by private schools association called it "arbitrary". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/39296291-0005-0012-4220-000012345678||||
With three separate pleas filed on various facets of the odd-even number policy for vehicles, Delhi High Court Wednesday directed the AAP government to file a status report with “pollution data” for the first five days of the restrictions being implemented.
In response to a PIL challenging the exemptions granted to two-wheelers and women drivers, the court asked for data to see whether the restrictions would “make a difference”.
The PIL, filed by Karuna Chatwal, alleges the exemption granted to two-wheelers “is against the very objective sought to be achieved”. The plea also states that the exemption to women drivers is “arbitrary and discriminatory”.
A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Sunil Gaur issued notice to the government and sought its response by January 6. The bench, however, declined to issue any interim directions regarding the policy or stay on the operation of the policy.
The bench also refused to issue any orders on a plea seeking exemption for lawyers from the odd-even policy. The plea by advocate Rahul Agarwal claims lawyers will not be able to work since they are required to carry bulky documents and travel from court to court. Agarwal has also argued that lawyers tender “emergency services” to “protect human rights, life, liberty and property”. The bench, however, pointed out even doctors were not granted exemption under the scheme. “You can take your files in an auto or a taxi,” commented the court and adjourned the hearing to January 6.
In a separate case heard before the single bench of Justice Kohli, private schools in the city were granted relief as the court directed that the government could not coerce them into “volunteering” their fleet of school buses for use between January 1-15. In its plea, the Action Committee of Unaided Private Schools, an umbrella body of about 400 schools in the city, had challenged the government’s “unilateral” and “arbitrary” decision. Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra assured the court the government would not coerce any school to give up its buses.
