My next film isn't sequel to Bang Bang: Sidharth ||||
 Actor Sidharth Malhotra has confirmed that his upcoming action-comedy film is not a sequel to the Hrithik Roshan-Katrina Kaif starrer 2014 film 'Bang Bang', as speculated in earlier reports. "We are shooting in Miami, Malaysia. I am preparing for action (sequences) in that," added Sidharth. Directed by Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK, the film also stars actress Jacqueline Fernandez. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/5ceecbef-1003-4864-a69d-107e67732f93-1||||
Bollywood actor Sidharth Malhotra says his forthcoming action-comedy film with actress Jacqueline Fernandez is not a sequel to “Bang Bang”.
There were reports that the film, to be directed by filmmaker-duo Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK, is a sequel to the Hrithik Roshan-Katrina Kaif starrer “Bang Bang”.
“Our film is not a sequel to ‘Bang Bang’. For the first time, I’ll be working with two-director team. It has got a lot of action, quirky comedy, love story. We are shooting in Miami, Malaysia. I am preparing for action in that. We are starting by the end of this week,” Sidharth told reporters.
The “Kapoor & Sons” actor said he is excited to team up with Jacqueline, with whom he earlier worked in “Brothers”.
“I am very excited but there’s no need for excitement because she herself brings that along with her. I am really looking forward to start shooting with her. You will see her do a bit of action,” he said.
Recently, there were reports that the film has been titled “Reloaded”. Sidharth, however, said the team is yet to come up with a title.
“The title is not that. We have kept it a mystery as we want to come up with the best title. But it is definitely not a part two of anything,” he said.
“I thoroughly enjoyed the team. Raj, DK, Jacqueline we all have gotten really well (with each other). It’s going to be an entertaining action film,” he further said.
Raj and DK previously directed films like “Go Goa Gone”, “Shor in the City” and the 2014 Saif Ali Khan-starrer “Happy Ending”.


Sidharth also said that apart from doing action movies, he would “love” to play a superhero on screen.
“I would love to be. I almost missed becoming that earlier, but there are some plans. I’ve grown up watching those films. So of course, another Indian superhero would be something I am looking forward to,” he said.
The actor was speaking at the launch of LeEco’s LeSuperphone which will stream TV channels on mobiles apart from movies, music, love concerts from around the world.
Entertainment Videos by Indian Express
