Saif confirms Kareena's pregnancy: Report ||||
 According to reports, actor Saif Ali Khan has confirmed the pregnancy of his wife Kareena Kapoor Khan. "My wife and I would like to announce that we are expecting our first child in December. We would like to thank our well wishers for their blessings....and also the press for their discretion and patience", Saif was quoted as saying. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/667f92d9-d380-424a-ab10-647c8eef83d6-1||||
Congratulations are in order for Kareena Kapoor Khan and Saif Ali Khan. The beautiful actress is pregnant, as confirmed to us by husband Saif Ali Khan.
After months of speculations and denial, the couple has finally gone official with the big news. As per Saif, they are expecting their first child in December this year and the actor has thanked his well-wishers for their blessings and the press for showing discretion and patience.
“My wife and I would like to announce that we are expecting our first child in December. We would like to thank our well wishers for their blessings and support and also the press for their discretion and patience,” Saif said.
See Pics: Kareena Kapoor’s Latest Photos After Her Pregnancy Confirmation By Husband Saif
Confirming Kareena will soon become a mother, Saif expressed his thanks when IndianExpress.com got in touch with him. This will be Kareena’s first child and Saif’s third. He has two children from his earlier marriage. (Kareena Kapoor Khan is pregnant. What happens to her films?)
Kareena and Saif tied the knot in 2012 after a five-year relationship.
While Bollywood actresses like Priyanka Chopra and Deepika Padukone are making a splash in the West, Kareena had shared earlier that she has no such ambitions. “My priorities are very different. I think it’s amazing what Priyanka has done. But I don’t think I could ever do something like that. I want to be a married working woman. My responsibilities are a lot more different than theirs. I have a husband, I would like to start a family,” she had said. (Kareena Kapoor and Saif Ali Khan are going to be parents. Here’s their married life in pictures)
While this is the first time that Saif talked about the pregnancy, Kareena has been fielding the question for some time now. In June, she said in an interview, “God willing hopefully. I am a woman. But right now there is nothing to say about it.” She further jokingly added, “The fact that you all are talking about it is making me super excited. I have five hidden children in London!”
Kareena’s dad Randhir Kapoor had also answered questions in this regard. “Well, they have not told me yet, so I have no clue. But I hope it is true. It is high time that they had a baby,” he had told an entertainment website last month.
