AAP govt gives 1 cr relief to Khan, Ahmed's kin ||||
 Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday gave compensation of 1 crore each to the families of slain NDMC officer MM Khan and NIA officer Tanzil Ahmed. Kejriwal hailed the honesty of the NDMC official and saluted the bravery of the NIA officer. The Delhi Waqf Board sought permission to fund the education of the children of the two officials. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/69c923e1-5b09-4224-9119-865467e5c8eb-1||||
Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday handed over compensation cheques of Rs one crore each to the families of slain NDMC officer M M Khan and NIA officer Tanzil Ahmed.
He paid floral tributes to Khan, NDMC estate officer, and Ahmed, NIA deputy superintendent of police (DSP), at a condolence meeting held at the Delhi Secretariat.
“We have heard stories of Tanzil Ahmed’s bravery in several cases. He sacrificed his life serving the country. On the other side, NDMC estate officer M M Khan was murdered for refusing to accept a bribe of Rs 3 crore.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
“Khan was an honest officer and it is impossible to find such officers,” the Delhi Chief Minister told a gathering here.
The solatium cheque was handed over to the daughters of Khan as per the policy of the Delhi government. Another cheque of same amount was given by the CM to Ahmed’s children who are studying in school.
Motorcycle-borne assailants had killed 45-year-old NIA officer Ahmed by pumping 24 bullets into his body and his wife Farzana Khatoon at a village in Bijnor district of Uttar Pradesh this April.
NDMC estate officer Khan was shot dead in May. Delhi Police has arrested a hotelier in connection with his murder.
Noting that the solatium amount was “nothing” compared to the bravery shown by the two officers and cannot compensate for the lives lost, Kejriwal added that the relief money given by the government is a mark of respect for Khan and Ahmed.
“In view of the atmosphere of ‘corruption’ in the country today, he (Khan) could have taken the bribe owing to poor financial condition of his family, but he refused. I want to request you (family members of both Khan and Ahmed) to approach me if you face any difficulty. We will continue our fight to ensure justice to you,” he said.
AAP Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan, who is also Chairman of Delhi Waqf Board, requested Kejriwal that the Board be given permission to bear all expenditures on education of the three daughters of the NDMC estate officer and a daughter and a son of Ahmed.
The ruling Aam Aadmi Party headed by Kejriwal has been alleging involvement of BJP MP Maheish Girri and NDMC vice-chairman Karan Singh Tanwar in the murder of Khan.
Last month, Girri, the East Delhi MP, had staged a sit-in outside Kejriwal’s residence calling for a debate with him over the allegations.
