2 soldiers martyred, 2 militants killed near LoC ||||
 Two soldiers were martyred on Saturday in an encounter with the terrorists near the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district, during which two militants were also gunned down. The militants were trying to infiltrate into the Indian side. Notably, the Army had on Wednesday killed four and captured one foreign militant in the same sector. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/7511be17-db1d-4b5d-b8de-ae1150fc45d7-1||||
The Army Saturday foiled an infiltration bid on the Line of Control in north Kashmir’s Naugam sector. Two soldiers and two militants were killed in the operation, which was underway till Saturday evening.
This is the second infiltration attempt foiled by the Army on the LoC since Wednesday. It comes at a time when the Valley is on the boil following the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani.
Officials said the Army engaged a group of infiltrators near Naugam sector in Kupwara district and killed two militants in the ensuing gunbattle.
“In an operation to foil infiltration, two jawans made the supreme sacrifice in Naugam, Kupwara. Two militants were also killed in the encounter,’’ the Army spokesperson said, adding that the operation is still underway.
Two AK rifles and an under barrel grenade launcher (UBGL) have been recovered from the encounter site, the Army said.
On Wednesday, in a similar operation, the Army had killed four foreign militants and arrested one in the same sector. The forces had launched the operation after soldiers spotted a group of militants near the LoC at Tout Mar Gali. The arrested militant was identified as Bhadur Ali, a resident of Lahore, Pakistan. Officials said that during interrogation, he said he was associated with the Lashkar-e-Toiba.
After initial interrogation, the Pakistani militant was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). He is currently being interrogated in New Delhi.
Ali is the fifth Pakistani militant arrested in the Valley in the last one year, and the second to have been handed over to the NIA.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
Despite a three-tier security on the LoC, militants have been using Naugam sector to sneak into the Valley. This is because once the LoC ends, a dense range of forests connected to Handwara and Kupwara villages starts — and that’s where militants have established hideouts.
Officials said several infiltrators have managed to sneak into the Valley, especially through Kupwara sector, this year. As per official figures, more than 50 militants have sneaked into the Valley from different routes in the first six months of 2016. Last year, 35 militants had managed to cross the LoC.
Top Army officials maintained that troops on the LoC are alert that more militants will try to sneak into Kashmir and take advantage of the current situation in the Valley.
 
