Hardik Patel says he will meet Kanhaiya Kumar ||||
 Patidar quota stir leader Hardik Patel on Friday announced his plan to meet Jawaharlal Nehru University Students Union President Kanhaiya Kumar. He is also a desh drohi (traitor) and I am also a desh drohi. We can work together for the country, Hardik was quoted as saying. Earlier, Hardik was released on bail after spending nearly 9 months in jail. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1f3e60da-9cc6-4142-ae3a-09c88605ec28-1||||
Coming out of prison after nearly 10 months, Patidar stir leader Hardik Patel on Friday vowed to continue the quota agitation using “a different method but the same attitude”. He also said he would try to unite around 28 crore Kurmis to support his community in the campaign.
Hardik rejected a Gujarat government ordinance providing 10 per cent reservation to the economically weaker sections (EWS), saying it has “no meaning” in the Constitution.
The 22-year-old Patidar leader, who was arrested in two sedition cases and also for rioting, announced his plan to meet Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president Kanhaiya Kumar, another sedition accused on bail. “He is also a desh drohi (traitor) and I am also a desh drohi. We can work together for the country,” he told The Indian Express, while leading a roadshow from Lajpore Central Jail to Patidar-dominated Sarthana locality.
Hardik said he would visit JNU to study the sedition case against Kanhaiya and attacked the government for slapping such serious charges on them.
Watch Video: What's making news
“Zakir Naik talks big and there are atrocities in Kashmir, but they are not booked for sedition. Those who talk about toppling the governments in Arunachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand are not booked for sedition. But those who talk about reservation, those who want to fight for the community and those who want to take the state and the country to a reconstruction mode are booked,” Hardik said.
Following the High Court direction that he should stay away from Gujarat for at least six months, Hardik has decided to put up at a guest house in Udaipur for a while. “If someone can run the country from Nagpur (RSS headquarters), then we can do something from Rajasthan, it is much closer to Gujarat,” he said.
Earlier, Hardik emerged out of the Central Jail in the morning in traditional white kediyu-choyni, usually worn by farmers in Gujarat, and was received by members of his Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti, NCP chief in Gujarat Jayant Patel and rebel BJP MLA Nalin Kotadiya, besides scores of supporters.
Speaking to reporters outside the jail before embarking on the roadshow, he took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying he does not want a “56-inch chest” but the rights of his community. “Na height chaahiye, na body chaahiye aur na chhappan inch ki chhaati chaahiye... humein to bas samaaj ka haq chaahiye (We neither want height nor a muscular body, nor even a 56-inch chest... we only want rights for our community),” he said.
As Hardik walked out of jail, supporters carried him on their shoulders shouting slogans “Jai Patidar” and “Hardik tum aage badho, hum tumhare saath hain.”
