Rising ticket cost will destroy B'wood: Salman ||||
 Actor Salman Khan has said that the rising prices of tickets will "destroy" the Hindi film industry due a reduction in "footfalls". "We have not been able to pull off a 300, 200 and even a 100 crore on a 250, 650 or 950 rupee ticket", added Salman. He further said that it is the film's ultimate collections that matter. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/05f7e4ee-f3ec-4a9d-82b5-52dbcd0b0104-1||||
It’s usual to see ticket prices hitting the rooftop every time a big budget movie starring either of the Khans release. And it’s no different for Salman Khan’s Sultan either. The ticket prices at almost every theatre have been upped by a few hundred rupees for Salman’s mega movie. Naturally the collections on Day 1 of Sultan would be a notch higher than the usual owing to the increased ticketing rates, a fact that doesn’t please Salman one bit. The actor feels the soaring rates will destroy the film industry very quickly and he has a good reason for saying so.
WATCH VIDEO: Salman Khan’s Sultan Gets Rave Audience Reviews
 
“Ticket prices are soaring so high, that our footfalls have reduced and this perhaps will destroy our film industry very quickly. And because of this the industries that have been benefited are Bhojpuri, Marathi, Punjabi and Gujarati. All these industries are making profits of Rs 50 crore on Rs 70-80 rupee tickets. We have not been able to pull off a Rs 300, 200 and even a 100 crore on a 250, 650 or 950 rupee ticket which is really really sad. So I think these regional industries are much bigger than our Hindi film industry,” averred Salman.
WATCH VIDEO: 5 Reasons To Watch Sultan
 
While most of his preceding films have raked in 100 crore and more at the box-office, for Salman it is the ultimate number that matters and not the initial day collections. Flaying the opening day box-office records, the Sultan actor said, “I think the initial numbers are ridiculous and stupid. You increase the ticket prices and your numbers will increase. It is so easy to create opening day records. All you need to do is to increase the ticket rates. Rs 41 crore, 30 crore or 9 crore become your first day opening collections. It is the last day numbers that matter. It is the end result of the film that actually matters. If it’s an opening of 2 crore, it will hurt. Finally the film has to do well which means they (audience) are coming for the film and not for you. When we all came into the into the industry, they didn’t come for us. They came to see the movie.”
