Dont think there will be a sequel to Fan: SRK ||||
 Shah Rukh Khan has said that there will be no sequel to his latest film 'Fan'. The 50-year-old actor added that he will be collaborating with the film's director Maneesh Sharma for another film "which is not similar to Fan at all". "Its a very different story and we will start working on it by next year," said Khan. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/54615076-0012-0004-1114-000012345678||||
Superstar Shah Rukh Khan, who has delivered yet another success with “Fan”, reveals that there won’t be any sequel to the film. However he is geared up to collaborate with the director of the latest release Maneesh Sharma yet again but with a different script altogether.
“The Fan is dead (in the film) so I don’t think there is any sequel to this movie,” the 50-year-old told IANS.
“Fan” featured Shah Rukh as Gaurav, a fan of superstar Aryan Khanna, who is also played by the superstar.
Shah Rukh says that he has associated with Maneesh for another film that will be different from “Fan”.


“Maneesh and me are working on another film which is not similar to ‘Fan’ at all. It’s a very different story and we will start working on it by next year. It will be a nice film..”
While critics and audience have been praising Gaurav’s character in “Fan”, Shah Rukh says Aryan Khanna was more difficult to play.
“I still feel Aryan is a most difficult character for me. It’s close to my life as an actor and as a star. I feel that the dignity of the movie stars needed to be maintained in the film because I am playing myself in it,” he said.
“Having said that, the biggest achievement was that we could convince the people that there are two people in this film and not one person and I think that’s the biggest compliment,” he added.
Shah Rukh is also planning to celebrate the success of “Fan”.
“Aditya Chopra (producer of ‘Fan’) has gone for ‘Befikre’ in Paris and I am going to London but one day I am going to sit down with the team of ‘Fan’ and celebrate. We spent long hours to make this film… so in a few days I will call for a get-together.”
Entertainment Videos by Indian Express
