Modi govt must speak over cow vigilantism: BJP MPs ||||
 BJPs Dalit MPs have urged the NDA government and the party to send out a strong message against incidents of cow vigilantism. "Its the responsibility of the party and government to create an atmosphere in which all humans are respected, said Nagina MP Yashwant Singh. These incidents are against our Constitution and culture, said Etawah MP Ashok Kumar Dohrey. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/eae0a551-332f-408f-9b8a-063c373c39f9-1||||
EXPRESSING CONCERN over the recent vigilantism by gau rakshaks, the BJP’s Dalit MPs have urged the NDA government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the party leadership to send a “strong message”. Describing the attacks on Dalits and minorities in the name of gau raksha as “goondagardi” and a “blot on humanity and the country”, they have called for strict action against the attackers.
Speaking to The Sunday Express, some warned that such incidents would eclipse the “message of development and social harmony” that the Prime Minister wants to send out. This comes a day after BJP ally and RPI leader Ramdas Bandu Athawale said protection of cows should not be at the expense of human lives and aske d the government to ensure that incidents, such as the recent flogging of a Dalit family by gau rakshaks in Gujarat’s Una, are not repeated.
“They should know how to protect cows. Protection of cows involves rearing them, proper breeding, ensuring they eat healthy and get water to drink,” said Yashwant Singh, MP, Nagina, Uttar Pradesh. “You cannot limit your cow protection to assaulting the Dalits who skin the dead cows. It’s their job and this society gave them that job,” Singh said.
“It’s also the responsibility of the party and the government to create an atmosphere in which all humans are respected. The Prime Minister and the party leadership should send a strong message,” he said.
Singh’s party colleague and MP from Mohanlalganj, Uttar Pradesh, Kaushal Kishore also said a stern message should be sent that Dalits cannot be assaulted in the name of cow protection. “You should at least know the truth before you indulge in such activities,” he said. “All the state governments, whether it is Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan or Uttar Pradesh, should deal with this strictly and take action against such committees,” he said.
Read | Dalits should embrace Buddhism, says Ramdas Bandu Athawale
He, however, added: “First you have to find out whether they are genuine cow protection groups or it is a political conspiracy”.
Etawah MP Ashok Kumar Dohrey said the attacks were a “blot” on humanity and the country. “We are humans first, and we should behave like humans. Even if someone does wrong, no one has the right to take law into their hands. What’s happening in the name of gau raksha is goondagardi,” he said.
“It could be a conspiracy also, because the PM has been trying to bring in social harmony. People want him to be weakened. It’s a very dangerous trend,” he added.
Read | BJP slaves like Athawale working to divide Dalit votes: Mayawati
With most of the attacks on Dalits and Muslims by gau rakshaks being reported from Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, both BJP-ruled states, the opposition parties in both houses of Parliament have demanded that the Prime Minister should make a statement. While Modi has not spoken yet, Home Minister Rajnath Singh has assured strict action against those involved in such activities.
Politically, the spurt in the attacks on Dalits has “damaged” the BJP’s “strategy and planning” for the elections in Uttar Pradesh, due early next year. Both the government and the BJP have initiated a series of programmes and schemes to woo the Dalits, who constitute more than 20 per cent of the population in UP and 32 per cent in Punjab.
Party leaders have admitted that the attacks in Gujarat and elsewhere have “diverted” the focus from development — the party’s main poll plank.
“It’s against our Constitution and culture because our culture teaches us to revere ant to elephant, small streams to ocean, stones to mountains. Poor people also have a right to live in this country. Our party is a party that works within the Constitution and has been taking steps to honour Ambedkarji. Some people want to spoil the message,” said Dohrey.
Read | NDA Minister Ramdas Athawale: If you do gau raksha, who will do manav raksha?
“I am sure the party will take strong action against those involved if they are from the BJP. I am sure the party, which has taken action against Dayashankar Singh (for his remarks against Mayawati) and Madhu Mishra (for objectionable remarks against Dalits), will come out with a strong message,” he said.
“It’s so unfortunate that when our Prime Minister talks about social harmony and development, such activities distract from his message,” said Kausambi MP Vinod Kumar Sonkar.
“Since the party and government do not support such activities, I hope both the Prime Minister and the party leadership will come out strongly against it. I am sure the party president is taking feedback on it. They are responsible people so they will send out a strong message.”
Kamlesh Paswan, MP of Bansgaon, agreed. “There should be a message because the BJP doesn’t support wrong things,” he said.
ALSO READ: Does BJP need a Dalit CM nominee in UP?
“God has made human beings supreme and a human life is very precious. So, anyone who is indulging in such activity should be given stringent punishment. Every party should rise above political lines and work against it,” said Sonkar.
But Chhedi Paswan, party MP from Sasaram, Bihar, said such incidents are not new. “Whatever is happening is not new. In this country, stone is worshipped as God, dog is considered as loyal and snakes are fed milk, but human beings are treated badly. There is nothing called humanity,” he said.
Asked if party president Amit Shah should issue a strong statement condemning such incidents, Paswan said: “Amit Shahji bahut bada neta hein. Why should I ask him to make a statement?”
 
