No intention to dilute Lokpal Act: Govt ||||
 The government on Wednesday rejected criticism regarding the amendment brought by it in the Lok Sabha to extend the deadline of July 31 for declaration of assets by NGOs receiving government funds. There is no intention to dilute the Lokpal Act, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ananth Kumar said, adding that the amendment bill was brought after consulting all political parties. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/71f359cd-c41c-4162-a95a-d7efc6fe5f3f-1||||
New Delhi, Jul 27 (PTI) The government today rejected criticism that the amendment brought by it in the Lok Sabha to extend the deadline of July 31 for declaration of assets by NGOs receiving government funds and Central government employees was aimed at "diluting" the transparency law.
Briefing reporters, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ananth Kumar also said the amendment bill was brought after consulting all political parties.
Earlier, the Lok Sabha approved the amendment pertaining to the Section 44 of the Lokpal Act dealing with declaration of assets.
"...there is no dilution, there is no intention to dilute the act (Lokpal Act). It is crystal clear. The matter has been brought according to sense of the house," Kumar said.
Replying to a question that the bill was brought without taking Cabinet approval, the Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs S S Ahluwalia said the legislation was moved invoking Rule 12 relating to the transaction of business of the Cabinet which provides for post-facto approval.
The amendment comes amidst criticism that the government was diluting the transparency law by classifying NGO officials as public servants.
Earlier in the day, moving the amendment for consideration, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said the government has received representations from MPs and other stakeholders. On July 25, a delegation of MPs had also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding deletion of the provision, he said.
"Till the present impasse is overcome, the deadline with regard to government servants (for declaring assets) can be deferred," Singh said as he moved the amendment.
He said the Standing Committee would submit its recommendations before the next session of Parliament and till then the deadline for declaration of assets of public servants and NGOs can be deferred.
As per the rules notified under the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act 2013, every public servant shall file declaration, information and annual returns pertaining to his assets and liabilities as well as for his spouse and dependent children as on March 31 every year or on or before July 31 of that year.
In April, the government had extended the date of filing returns by public servants from April 15 to July 31. This is the fifth extension to the deadline since the Act came into force in January 2014.
