I-T Dept launches new grievance redressal tool ||||
 The Income Tax department has launched 'e-nivaran' (electronic solution), a special grievance redressal system to fast-track grievances and ensure early resolution of taxpayers' complaints. It comes under the Income Tax Business Application, the new smart electronic platform for the operations of the department. The system tracks a complaint from its origin, till it reaches its final resolution. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3533e0c3-29e3-46b0-949d-ea532179c12b-1||||
The Income Tax department has launched a special electronic grievance redressal system called ‘e-nivaran’ in order to fast track taxpayer grievances and ensure early resolution of their complaints.
A separate and dedicated window for grievance redressal has been launched recently in the Income Tax Business Application (ITBA), the new smart electronic platform for the regular operations of the department.
The facility is called ‘e-nivaran’ (electronic solution) and acts to integrate all online and physical complaints gathered by the department at this platform which will be monitored by the Assessing Officer of the case upto the supervisory officers in a paperless environment.
The facility is called ‘e-nivaran’ (electronic solution) and acts to integrate all online and physical complaints gathered by the department at this platform which will be monitored by the Assessing Officer of the case up to the supervisory officers in a paperless environment.
“The new system is called unified grievance management system and is acronymed ‘e-nivaran’. The system not only records the origin of the grievance on the electronic platform it works on, but it also keeps tracking it till it reaches its logical conclusion for final resolution,” a senior IT official said.
The e-portal will also ensure that grievances related to any section or domain of the tax department are transferred quickly to the department concerned like that of refunds issue or any other IT matter concerning an assessee.
The decision to launch ‘e-nivaran’, the official said, was taken in view of Prime Minister Narendra Modi few months back asking the IT department to pull up its socks and ensure that taxpayers grievances are resolved in the shortest possible time.
Modi had also asked all such departments which have a public interface to reduce this time to one month from the existing two months time.
The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the policy-making body of the department, has recently also created a new structure in the department to deal with these issues called the Taxpayer Services unit.
Allotting high priority to this issue, the CBDT had also brought a new mechanism where top officers of the department have been allotted a specific quota of complaints to monitor and track, from their origin to successful resolution.
