Rajnath chairs meeting after Kashmir protests ||||
 Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday chaired a high-level meeting to review the law and order situation in Jammu and Kashmir. This comes after protests in the valley killed at least 15 people following the death of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani. The Home Secretary, the Joint Secretary (Kashmir division), and the Intelligence Bureau Chief, among others, attended the meeting. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/730aeb25-174b-4007-a7d8-a47748cfe0f1-1||||
Following the highly tense situation in the valley after the death of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani, Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday chaired a high-level meeting to review the law and order situation in Jammu and Kashmir.
Home Secretary Anil Goswami, Joint Secretary (Kashmir division) Gyanesh Kumar, Intelligence Bureau (IB) Chief Dineshwar Sharma and senior Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) officials were present at the meeting being held at Rajnath Singh’s residence .
Watch Video: What’s making news 
The meeting comes in the wake of the violence in the valley as the death toll in the clashes between security forces and protestors has reached 15, after three more civilians succumbed to injuries.
Earlier, eight civilians were killed in the clashes in south Kashmir, a day after Burhan Wani and his two associates were killed in an encounter in Anantnag. One among the deceased drowned in local area while fleeing. More than hundred protesters have also been injured in the clashes across Kashmir. A local hospital in Srinagar received around 70 injured civilians, most of them with bullet injuries.
State Intelligence chief S M Sahai told that three police personnel were missing while 96 security force personnel were seriously injured. Sahai said the focus was to prevent the loss of young lives. He said the situation was particularly bad in south Kashmir and appealed for maintaining peace.
The Centre has reportedly rushed 12 companies of CRPF to Kashmir to assist the local administration in maintaining law and order situation in the area. Home Minister Rajnath Singh has said the Centre is working with the State government to bring normalcy in the valley. In a tweet, Singh appealed to the people to remain calm and maintain peace.
Mobile internet and train services are suspended in the valley and the Amarnath Yatra remains temporarily suspended and around ten thousand pilgrims are reportedly stranded at Jammu. CBSE has postponed the UGC-NET exam scheduled for today in Srinagar. The new date of examination will be announced later.
