Pattnaik's 100 sand 'Raths' set world record ||||
 Sand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik has set another world record by entering the Limca Book of Records by carving 100 sand chariots at the Puri beach in Odisha. The Padma Shri awardee artist already has 20 world records to his name. Pattnaik said about 800 bags of sand were used within 2,500 sqft area to complete the 100 chariots. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/5529e2cd-2ffd-4d49-a820-76994ff2ce2a-1||||
Puri, Jul 6 (PTI) Renowned sand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik has set another world record and got place in Limca Book of Records by carving 100 sand chariots at the Puri beach in Odisha.
"I have got an official confirmation from Limca Book of Records about it," he said today.
Padma Shri awardee Pattnaik already has 20 world records to his credit. He has been making sand art related to Rath Yatra every year.
"This will be a big draw for tourists who have come here to witness Rath Yatra happening today," he said.
Giving details about the sand art, he said about 800 bags of sand were used within 2,500 sqft area to create 100 chariots.
Pattnaik took about 20 hours spread over three days to complete it. 25 students from his institute assisted him in this work.
After getting permission from Limca Book of Records, they started the sand carvings from July 2 and complete these within two days.
Sand sculpture is believed to have been started during the Rath Yatra in the 16th century by Balaram Das, a staunch devotee of Lord Jagannath and a poet, who was once humiliated by the servitors and not allowed to pull the chariots during the yatra.
He had then gone to the Puri beach and sculpted chariots on the sand. It is said his chariots moved on sands whereas the real ones on the Grand Road in Puri got stalled. The king, Prataprudra, came down to Das to apologise to him and pull the chariots, Pattnaik said citing an age-old legend.
He has participated in more than 50 international sand sculpture championships across the world and won many awards for the country.
He has also got the fourth highest civilian award Padma Shri in 2014.
