Cheating charge is false, motivated: Sussanne ||||
 Sussanne Khan, actor Hrithik Roshan's ex-wife, has denied the charges against her in an alleged 1.87 crore cheating case by a real estate firm calling it "motivated and preposterous". She added that she had initiated arbitration proceedings against the firm to recover her dues. "The said complaint... has been only filed to intimidate... and pressurize me," said Sussanne. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a68d90af-9b18-4a69-a581-11a6bd59238e-1||||
Sussanne Khan, ex-wife of Bollywood star Hrithik Roshan, who was on Saturday booked by the Goa police in an alleged case of cheating has called the complaint preposterous and motivated. According to Sussane, the complaint has been been filed to intimidate and pressurise her in withdrawing the arbitration proceedings that she had initiated earlier to recover her dues.
In a message sent to IndianExpress.com, Sussane wrote, “I am in London and this is my response. This is with reference to news appearing in a section of media where it has been reported that I have cheated Emgee Enterprises and misrepresented that I am an Architect. The said complaint is motivated and preposterous and has been only filed to intimidate me and pressurize me to withdraw the arbitration proceedings initiated by me in the first instance to recover my dues and damages resulting from breach of contract.”
Read Also: Hrithik Roshan’s ex-wife Sussanne Khan booked for cheating
“As a background I have challenged the termination of the contract and have invoked arbitration under the contract for recovery of my dues. As a counter-blast to the said proceedings Mr Mudhit Gupta only with the intention to harass and pressurize me to give into his frivolous counterclaim initiated the criminal complaint. I have not made any misrepresentations and have maintained the highest standards of ethics in discharge of my work . I am going to take the arbitral proceedings to the logical conclusions and instead of getting intimated will respond to such frivolous complaint and will give a befitting response . Such complaints do not scare me rather it encourages me to stand up for the truth. The allegations in complaints are false and defamatory and I will take appropriate proceedings in accordance with law.”
The complaint, lodged by real estate major Emgee Properties, has accused Sussanne of falsely claiming to be an architect to win a contract with the company.
