India abstains from voting on LGBT rights at UN ||||
 India withheld from voting at a United Nations Human Rights Council session on Thursday to appoint an investigator to help protect homosexuals and transgender people from violence and discrimination. The 47-member forum ultimately voted in favour of the bid, with 23 states for and 18 against it. India, South Africa, and the Philippines were among the six abstainers. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/e8777f58-3294-4dff-9219-7299b88d7f04-1||||
The Ministry of External Affairs on Friday said India abstained from the LGBT vote in the United Nations as the case is subjudice and the Supreme Court is yet to pronounce its verdict.
In a statement, MEA spokesperson Vikas Swarup said, “Issue of LGBT rights in India is a matter being considered by SC, court is yet to pronounce on this issue.”
India’s response on the LGBT vote in the UN comes hours after LGBT community members expressed disappointment over its move to help protect the rights of homosexuals and transgenders worldwide. The LGBT community members today demanded Prime Minister Narendra Modi to break his silence and speak about “inclusive society”.
READ: LGBT community questions PM Modi’s silence, says govt has ‘fascist mindset’
Throwing light on the fact that the Private Member Bill brought by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor was unanimously rejected by the Parliament, Transgender activist Akkai Padmashali said it reflected ‘intolerance’ on the government’s part.
“That is very disappointing. When the United Nations Human Rights Council had a special session on sexual orientation and gender identity, India took a strange stand, which is very disappointing. This is not the first time. When Mr. Shashi Tharoor of the Congress presented a Private Member Bill in the Parliament on 377, the Parliament unanimously rejected it. That shows intolerance,” Padmashali told ANI.
Meanwhile, the Rashtriya Janata Dal too on Friday criticised the NDA government’s move to abstain from voting in the UN Human Rights Council to appoint an independent investigator to help protect the rights of homosexuals and transgenders worldwide, saying that it would send a ‘negative’ message from India on a ‘progressive issue’.
