'Premier Futsal to be held twice in a season' ||||
 Former Portuguese footballer and Premier Futsal President, Luis Figo has said the futsal tournament will be held twice in a season with the second edition to take place in January next year. "We are here to promote Futsal for Futsal, not for any other motive", he added, and insisted that the number of teams could be increased from the current six. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d45b0b1e-cdd0-4dd6-9213-12a44a7a463e-1||||
Premier Futsal President Luis Figo has said that the ongoing Premier Futsal will be held twice in a season and the second edition will be held in January next year.
“Yes, we are looking at January for the second season. We are here to promote Futsal for Futsal, not for any other motive. It is a private investment, so our focus will be to create this property,” Portugal football legend Figo said at a media interaction at the sidelines of the ongoing inaugural season in Chennai.
He said the number of teams could be increased from the current six in the next edition.
“Going forward there can be 8, 10 & 12. We hope we can improve the quality of the game. Whatever happens along the way, it will. There always are problem, which are always going to pull you down. But we must focus on or end objective and do our best for Futsal,” said the former World Player of the Year and 2000 Ballon d’Or winner.
Asked about his vision of Premier Futsal, he said, “This is the first Indian platform for Futsal where Indian talent can play with international stars. India has great passion for sports, with full stadiums, I think there is great future for Premier Futsal.”
Asked what is lacking in Indian Futsal players, Figo said, “Most important is the passion & the will to work hard & chase your dream. Indian players can work hard & I’m hoping through my academies I can help them achieve that dream.”
He said he would have played in the tournament but for a possible ‘conflict of interest’.
“I could have played, but there is conflict of interest else I would have played.”
Asked if it was difficult to convince the likes of Ronaldinho, Ryan Giggs and Falcao to come to India for Premier Futsal, he said, “The most difficult thing is to manage their schedules. To come here, they have to plan & keep family time in mind as well. But it did not take too much convincing. They were positive as soon as they were told about Premier Futsal.”
“Futsal Leagues are played differently in different parts of the world – when there is private investment there is a lot more scope of experimenting & making the sport more interesting. Our job is to popularise the sport.”
Asked how Cristiano Ronaldo has evolved from his younger days to his current status as a superstar now, Figo said, “He is the evolution of skills, maturity & experience. He is what football is all about. He is serious about his game & that’s what makes him what he is today from what he was when he first came on the scene.
“He has the passion to be the best & that’s what makes him different.”
