NIA raids office, homes of SP Salwinder Singh ||||
 The office and residences of Punjab Police SP Salwinder Singh were raided by the National Investigation Agency on Thursday in connection with the Pathankot air base terror attack. The residences of Singh's friends, including that of his jeweller friend Rajesh Verma, who was allegedly murdered by the terrorists, were also raided. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/87634091-0014-0001-7526-000012345678||||
The NIA on Thursday conducted searches at the residences of Gurdaspur SP Salwinder Singh, his friend and his cook in connection with its probe into the Pathankot terror attack.
Searches were conducted at Singh’s office and residences in Amritsar and Gurdaspur. The agency also searched the house of his jeweller friend Rajesh Verma, his cook Madan Gopal and a woman friend of his.
The SP has claimed that he, alongwith Verma and Gopal, was waylaid by terrorists near Kolian village in Gurdaspur on December 31. He has further said that the terrorists left him and Gopal behind and forced Verma to drive them to the IAF base, before injuring and throwing him off the vehicle.
Sources said the NIA conducted the searches to unearth fresh information, as Salwinder, during the interrogation, has maintained that he was innocent but has been evasive about his suspicious conduct on December 31.
The NIA has been interrogating Salwinder for many days now and has even subjected him to a lie-detector test without any clear indication to his involvement with drug cartels or his role in the infiltration of terrorists. Salwinder is now expected to be subjected to behavioural tests. Sources said he might soon be produced before a team of scientists, comprising a behavioural analyst and psychoanalysts.
Singh is currently posted as Assistant Commandant of 75th Punjab Armed Police. He came under the scanner after he said that the terrorists left him and his cook behind, but took his friend along and later dumped him.
Also, his statement that he was returning from a shrine which he often visited was reportedly found to be inconsistent with the statement of the caretaker of the dargah, Somraj. Somraj had told the NIA that the SP had come to the dargah for the first time on December 31.
