Censor Board gives A certificate to 'Kathakali' ||||
 The Malayalam movie 'Kathakali' has received an 'A' certificate by the Central Board of Film Certification. Earlier, the film was denied certification by the Censor Board as it allegedly contained nudity and vulgarity. However, the film's director Saijo Kannanaikkal approached the  Kerala High Court following which the Censor Board reversed its order and granted the certification. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a0014303-e3d3-4304-a840-e37b29a92e1b-1||||
Censor Board of Film Certification has finally issued an A certificate for the controversial Malayalam movie Kathakali, which was earlier denied certification for release on grounds of alleged nudity and vulgarity, following the intervention of the Kerala High Court.
The director of the movie, Saijo Kannanaikkal had approached the High Court in June after the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) officer here insisted on removal of some scenes from the film for issuing the certification.
The filmmaker had alleged that the board's move was an infringement on his creative freedom. CBFC regional officer A Prathibha said an A certificate was given to the movie according to an High Court's directive.
"The High Court directed us to give an appropriate certification for the film. So we issued an A certificate to it. As it is an A certificate, the controversial scenes have been retained," she told PTI.
The two hour long feature film revolves around the life of a man, an orphan, who tries to create a space and identity of his own in the society around. In the climax, the protagonist removes his Kathakali attire and crosses a river as a symbolic mark of protest against the society.
The denial of certification for Kathakali had evoked widespread protest among filmmakers and technicians.
This, however, is not the first film to face troubles with The Censor Board Of Film Certification of India. Director Anurag Kashyap can probably go down in the history pages of Bollywood as the director who faced most challenges with the CBFC.
With PTI inputs.
