Assam floods affect 92,000; Army, NDRF deployed ||||
 The floods in Assam worsened on Monday with the number of people affected in six districts rising over 92,000, of whom 7,200 have been shifted to relief camps. With several tributaries of the Brahmaputra flowing above the danger level, authorities deployed Army, NDRF and SDRF for rescue operations. Torrential rains also triggered massive landslides in Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Assam. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/97102305-0015-0004-1961-000012345678||||
The flood situation in Assam worsened on Monday with the number of people affected in six districts rising to over 92,000, of whom 7,200 have shifted to 40 relief camps. As several tributaries of the Brahmaputra continued to flow above the danger level and inundated fresh villages, the authorities have also deployed the Army, NDRF and SDRF personnel in rescue operations.
Torrential rains on the other hand have triggered off massive landslides in Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Assam, disrupting railway traffic in the Lumding-Badarpur hill section for the third consecutive day. Landslides have cut off Anjaw district in eastern Arunachal Pradesh and Mon district in Nagaland, official reports said.
The six districts that have been reeling under floods included Sivasagar, Charaideo, Jorhat, Tinsukia, Dibrugarh and Cachar, officials in the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said. In Dima Hasao district on the other hand several labourers engaged in stone quarrying were feared washed away due to flash floods in the Jatinga river. Landslides have cut off both road as well as railway links in the district.
Sivasagar and Charaideo districts in Assam remained the worst affected with about 74,000 people affected by the floods caused by Burhidihing and Disang rivers. Sivasagar deputy commissioner Virendra Mittal said about 200 villages in the two districts were reeling under floods, while about 3,500 people have been shifted to 31 relief camps.
Landslides in Dima Hasao district have also cut off road and railway communication to the Barak Valley in southern Assam. An official in the Northeast Frontier Railway headquarters here said train services that had resumed on Sunday after clearing the debris at several places had to be cancelled once again on Monday due to fresh landslides between Lumding and Badarpur.
In Arunachal Pradesh, the death toll caused by landslides has reached 19 after one more person was killed in Hayuliang in Anjaw district on Sunday evening. An official in Itanagar said that while road communication to Hawai, the Anjaw district headquarters, remained cut off for the fourth consecutive day on Monday, fresh landslides have completely cut off the district from the rest of the world.
Chief minister Kalikho Pul on Monday directed the officials to release Rs 2 crore for for relief and restoration works the landslide-devastated Tawang district, including ex-gratia relief to the next of kin of 18 persons killed in the past four days. The The state government also released relief fund of Rs 1 Crore each to the badly affected districts of Namsai, Lower Subansiri, Changlang and Anjaw.
In Nagaland on the other hand Mon district has been the worst affected due to landslides caused by incessant rains in the past four days. Over 200 houses including a government primary school have been damaged, while Mon town remained cut off from the rest of the state. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has been pressed into service to restore the road links, official sources said in Kohima.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
