'Mohenjo Daro' to close 'Locarno Film Festival' ||||
 The Hrithik Roshan and Pooja Hegde starrer 'Mohenjo Daro', directed by Ashutosh Gowariker, has been chosen to close the 69th edition of the 'Locarno International Film Festival' in Switzerland. 'Mohenjo Daro' will be screened at the Piazza Grande, where Ashutosh Gowariker's 'Lagaan' was also screened. This year, the film festival will be held from August 3 to August 13. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/7c15de9e-e8bd-4a8e-99fc-4490a22007a4-1||||
Hrithik Roshan-starrer “Mohenjo Daro” has been selected as the closing film of the 69th edition of Locarno International Film Festival.
The film fest will take place in the Italian-speaking resort on Lake Maggiore in southern Switzerland from August 3 to 13.
The UTV and Ashutosh Gowariker Productions film will be screened at the Piazza Grande, one of the finest open-air venues in the world, read a statement.
Directed by internationally acclaimed filmmaker Gowariker, the film marks debut of Pooja Hegde and is produced by Siddharth Roy Kapur and Sunita Gowariker. It will release worldwide on August 12.
The Locarno International Film Festival is one of Europe’s highly acclaimed and widely attended festivals. The annual fest aims to discover great films from around the world.
“We are honoured and humbled that ‘Mohenjo Daro’ has been selected for screening at the closing night ceremony at Piazza Grande section of prestigious festival. We are extremely thrilled that the film will be showcased to the European audience as part of the closing day gala,” said Amrita Pandey, Vice President – Studios, Disney India.
This is the second time for Gowariker at the Locarno International Film Festival.
“I am extremely happy to know that the Locarno Film Festival has selected ‘Mohenjo Daro’. When ‘Lagaan’ was screened at the same Piazza, on a giant screen, one of the biggest in the world, it was an out-of-the-world experience to see an audience of 8,000-plus of different nationalities, applaud the film. I am excitedly looking forward to Locarno this time,” Gowariker said.
The film brings an epic adventure-romance story on the silver screen. It is set in the city of Mohenjo Daro in the era of the Indus Valley civilisation which dates back to 2,600 BC.
