China, Taiwan get first hotline since 1949 ||||
 China and Taiwan on Wednesday formally inaugurated the first hotline since 1949 in an effort to build trust after a recent meeting of the leaders of rival nations in Singapore. In the first call, both sides affirmed achievements in improving ties over the last year. This is the first communications link between the leaders after Taiwan broke away from China. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/78529970-0012-0012-4143-000012345678||||
China and Taiwan on Wednesday launched a first hotline to build mutual trust between the longtime rivals following their top leaders’ historic summit. The mainland China and Taiwan agreed to set up a hotline between the chiefs of cross-Strait affairs from both sides during the historic meeting between Chinese President Xi Jinping and his Taiwanese counterpart Ma Ying-jeou last month in Singapore.
The phone line was formally inaugurated by the chiefs of cross-Strait affairs from both sides as both the countries initiated several measures in recent years including meeting between top leaders. The conversation took place between China’s office’s director Zhang Zhijun and Taiwan’s mainland affairs chief Andrew Hsia, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
Zhang and Hsia also exchanged New Year greetings during the hotline conversation, according to the spokesperson. During the conversation, both sides affirmed the achievements made in the past year in promoting the development of cross-Strait relations while upholding the 1992 Consensus, Ma Xiaoguang, the Chinese official in-charge of the Taiwan Affairs, told media here today.
It is the first such link between the two estranged nations since Taipei broke away from the mainland China in 1949. “We hope the two authorities will make efforts to maintain and promote peaceful development of cross-Strait relations on the common political basis of the 1992 Consensus in the future and bring more benefits for people on both sides,” Ma said.
Ma said the hotline will facilitate communication on important cross-Strait issues to enhance mutual understanding and trust and maintain a common basis and correct direction for the development of ties.
