J&K govt revokes Internet services suspension ||||
 The J&K government on Friday revoked the suspension of Internet services in the state, two days after the deferral orders were issued following two incidents of temple vandalisation. The government had earlier termed the attacks a 'well-planned conspiracy', citing that they occurred ahead of the Amarnath yatra. The attacker arrested for the crime was later described as 'mentally unsound'. ||||
 Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/784c0e9e-45ac-4ee3-907d-d67d4f971624-1||||
The ruling PDP-BJP government in Jammu and Kashmir has revoked the suspension of broadband internet services in the state. Earlier, describing incidents of sacrilege at two temples in Jammu city in less than 48 hours as a "well planned conspiracy to flare up situation" ahead of the Amarnath yatra in South Kashmir, the government had suspended internet services across the state.
Pawan Kotwal, divisional commissioner, Jammu, described the incidents of sacrilege at Roopnagar and Nanak Nagar temple "a big, big conspiracy" to "flare up communal tension ahead of Amarnath yatra".
Pointing out that the accused held at Nanak Nagar was talking to someone on a cell phone while committing the crime, he said, "We are trying to find out as to with whom he was in touch at that time."
Identified as Gurbachan Singh alias Minta, a suspended constable of Jammu Kashmir police, who kicked the Shiva idol at Nanak Nagar temple on Thursday evening, he was overheard telling someone on his cell phone, "I have done the task...now deposit money in my account."
Singh was later detained under Public Safety Act on orders of the District Magistrate, Jammu, Simrandeep Singh.
The police and local people said he was a drug addict and he was suspended two years ago as he used to remain under inebriated conditions even during duty hours.
This is second such incident in less than 48 hours in Jammu city after a similar sacrilegious act was committed by a youth from Doda. Identified as Yasir Alfaz, he was stated to be of "unsound mind" by his family members.
Though he was arrested by police, angry people attacked Janipura police station and torched vehicles including buses. Nearly two dozen people were rounded up by police who resorted to cane charge and lobbed teargas shells to disperse them.
While all the 22 people held during arson were released unconditionally, the state government has ordered medical examination of Yasir by a Board of Doctors to find out whether he was of unsound mind and needed psychiatric treatment.
People committing such acts may be of unsound mind or even addicted to drugs, but there must be someone who may have used them, said a police officer who wished not to be named.
"We have to unearth this conspiracy before people involved in it do something more," he added.
