Restaurant to give free 'Chicken Sanju Baba' ||||
 Noor Mohammadi Hotel, a Mumbai restaurant has announced to offer a dish named 'Chicken Sanju Baba' for free on Thursday to celebrate the release of actor Sanjay Dutt from jail. Notably, Dutt, who inaugurated a section of the restaurant in 1986 and has been a regular visitor to the eatery since then, had himself created the signature dish in 2010. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/12880961-0007-0002-2616-000012345678||||
A Mumbai restaurateur will offer a special culinary delight — named ‘Chicken Sanju Baba’ — free of charge to all patrons and fans to celebrate Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt’s release from prison on Thursday.
Mughlai eatery Noor Mohammadi Hotel in south Mumbai will offer the signature recipe, created by Dutt himself and gifted to restaurant owner Khalid Hakim.
“I had invited Sanjay Dutt Sa’ab to inaugurate the new family section of my restaurant in 1986. Since then, he visited regularly to relish the special non-vegetarian and other food items we served here, especially his favourite Nalli Nari,” Hakim told IANS.
Dutt also loved other lipsmacking specialities like White Chicken Biryani, Chicken Hakimi, Dal Ghee, Zafrani Tangdi Kabab, Shami Kabab, Tiranga Kabab etc. on the menu, which Dilip Kumar, late M.F. Husain and Sunil Dutt also loved. (Read: Sanjay Dutt to walk out of prison on February 25)
“It was only much later — in 2010 — on one of his visits that he created a special gravy-based chicken dish for us and we named it after him as ‘Chicken Sanju Baba’ on the menu card.
“He also gave me his written consent to prepare and sell it to our patrons,” said Hakim, who is the third generation owner of the restaurant opened in 1923.
Over the years, ‘Chicken Sanju Baba’ ranks among the top customer choice on the menu along with other traditional favourites. (Also read: Sanjay Dutt’s son to appear in remix of Raj Kapoor’s song)
Dutt even credited the hotel for the dish named after him in a television interview, Hakim said with a tinge of pride in his voice.
“He is a big star, he could have easily sold the recipe to some five-star hotel and earn royalty for his whole life. But he gave it to our humble place. The least we can do is celebrate his release differently along with his fans and patrons on Thursday,” Hakim said.
As per plans, the restaurant will serve ‘Chicken Sanju Baba’ to all patron and fans free from noon till midnight on Thursday as Dutt walks out to freedom after nearly three years in Yerawada Central Jail in Pune.
Incidentally, iconic painter late M.F. Husain — who was a regular patron at the restaurant — had created a special painting at his favourite eatery which enjoys a place of pride, said Hakim.
