Won't commit blunder of being CM again: Antony ||||
 Congress leader AK Antony on Saturday said he would not commit the "historical blunder" of becoming the Chief Minister of Kerala again. "That era is over. Even in my dreams, I am not harbouring plans to return to Kerala politics, Antony said. Notably, Antony has held the post thrice, but his terms were cut short on all the three occasions. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ea4f3325-982e-4440-9f67-6a91413c985c-1||||
Senior Congress leader A K Antony, whose all three terms as Kerala Chief Minister in the past were cut short, on Saturday said he would not commit the “historical blunder” of becoming the CM of the state again.
“I will not commit the historical blunder again…Thatera is over. Even in my dreams, I am not harbouring plans toreturn to Kerala politics,” he told reporters in Thrissur.
The former Defence Minister was replying to a question whether he was keen to return to state politics and take over as chief minister if the United Democratic Front (UDF) returns to power in the coming assembly elections.
“Twelve years ago I was chief minister. Each person has a time. It is best to stop singing when your voice is good,” he said referring to a Malayalam proverb.
A three-time chief minister, Antony’s terms were cut short on all occasions.
He become the the youngest chief minister at the age of 37 from April 1977 to October 1978. In his second term, he held the office from 1995 to 1996.
Antony who had taken over reins of the state when the Congress-led UDF was voted to power in 2001, had to quit three years later after the front suffered a total rout in the then Lok Sabha elections and was succeeded by Oommen Chandy.
On Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claim that he saw BJP emerging as a third force in the state, Antony said it was only his “wishful thinking”.
He also attacked the BJP-led NDA government and said nothing had been done for the state in the last two years.
Only Congress can defeat “anti-people” policies of the BJP-led government at the Centre, he added.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
