'Officials guilty in Jat stir would face action' ||||
 Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar has said that the state government would take action against all officers found guilty in connection with the Jat quota agitation violence, on the basis of the Prakash Singh Committee report. The Committee constituted to probe the role of the officials in the agitation, had indicted 90 officials for 'deliberate negligence', in its report. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/d21c11d6-cdc1-4316-b756-b3299bf8f9ab-1||||
Chandigarh, May 22 (PTI) Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the state government would go by Prakash Singh Committee report on Jat quota agitation violence and action would be initiated against all officers found guilty.
Khattar said that three sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and nine DSP level officers have already been suspended and administrative action was being taken against them.
Action has already been taken against one Inspector General level officer, he said in Karnal today.
Yesterday, action was recommended against 15 police personnel of Rohtak district, including eight SHOs on the basis of report by Parkash Singh Committee.
The report found "deliberate negligence" on the part of 90 officials, including IAS and IPS officers during the Jat agitation in February.
On May 17, the Haryana government had shunted out Additional Chief Secretary (Home) P K Das who was replaced by senior IAS officer Ram Niwas.
Around 90 officers were indicted for "deliberate negligence" during the Jat quota agitation by the committee and adverse comments were made against them in its report submitted to the chief minister on May 13.
Thirty people were killed in violence besides extensive damage to properties during the stir whose epicentre was Rohtak district.
Meanwhile, Khattar said the government believed in all-round development and carried out works for repairing the roads in all assembly constituencies irrespective of which party the MLA belonged to.
The maximum number of works related to repairing of roads has been carried in Tosham area, he said. Notably, Tosham is represented by senior Congress leader Kiran Choudhary.
