Clause on Punjab water supply to states scrapped ||||
 The Punjab government has scrapped the legal provision to supply the state's river water to Haryana and Rajasthan, CM Parkash Singh Badal said on Friday. The concerned clause 5 of the Punjab Termination of Agreements Act was enacted by the previous Congress government. Scrapping the clause was one of the Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dals pre-poll promises in 2007. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c2f9a3fe-7aa5-423b-9b16-0639689998fa-1||||
At a sangat darshan programme in Nakodar Assembly constituency on Friday, Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal claimed that the government had scrapped Clause 5 of the Punjab Termination of Agreements Act (PTAA), 2005. However, he did not elaborate on when his government had scrapped it.
Clause five of the Act, passed by the previous Congress government in Punjab, said that state would maintain the existing level of river water supply to Haryana and Rajasthan as per their river water sharing agreement of 1981. Scrapping of the clause was one of the Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD’s) pre-poll promises since 2007.
When the media questioned the CM’s stand over Clause five, the CM said, “Oh tan asin radd kar dita hai, tuhani pata hi nahin? (that we have scrapped you don’t know?)”. However, when asked for when it was scrapped however, CM did not give a direct reply.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
However, he did make an impassioned plea to the people to be prepared to make sacrifices on the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) issue. “Both AAP and Congress are conniving with each other to deprive the Punjabis of every single drop of water. It is the bounden duty of every Punjabi to be ready for a struggle to save the waters of state.”
The CM appeared not too pleased when reporters pressed him on whether Punjab will continue to supply water to Rajasthan. “Tuhanu hor koi kamm ni, tusin pura din ehi karde rehnde ho (You have no work to do and you do such things whole day),” he said.
The CM again refused to comment on AAP’s promise to form a special investigation team (SIT) into the ‘killing’ of Hindus during the militancy days in Punjab.
Earlier, at Kang Saabu village, the Chief Minister said Congress Chief Captain Amarinder Singh was “promising the moon to everyone and trying to replicate me by sweating out in scorching heat in the hope of becoming the Chief Minister”. Later, the Chief Minister inaugurated the 66KV Grid Sub Station at village Shamshabaad constructed at a cost of Rs 4 crore.
Tehsildar shifted
The Punjab state government transferred Hoshiarpur’s tehsildar and Naib tehsildar, Baljinder Singh and Manjit Singh in the wake of the recent news reports about the alleged scam in the acquisition of land for the four-laning of Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur-Chintpurni NH-70 in which a probe Vigilance Bureau has been ordered. While the said officers have been asked to report to the office of Financial Commissioner (Revenue), Punjab, no one has been posted in their place yet. Deputy Commissioner, Hoshiarpur, Anandita Mitra, has been asked to make internal arrangements consequent upon these transfers till the posting of new officers.
 
