Precise monsoon information to farmers by 2019 ||||
 Indian and British scientists are working on a project under the National Monsoon Mission to provide precise information about monsoon to all farmers up to the block-level by 2019. Only 1.13 crore out of 9.30 crore farmers get monsoon information till now, said Union Minister Harsh Vardhan. Under this, India will manufacture an atmospheric research aircraft within two years. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a54afb20-491a-400c-a1a1-778fdde8456a-1||||
Lucknow, Jul 11 (PTI) Indian and British scientists are working on a project together under the National Monsoon Mission to provide precise information about monsoon to farmers up to the block-level by 2019.
"Under the National Monsoon Mission, precise information about the monsoon will be provided to farmers up to the block level by 2019," Union Minister for Science and Technology Harshvarshan said.
The Minister, who also holds the portofolio of Earth Sciences, said till now only 1.13 crore farmers out of 9.30 get information about monsoon which helps them in taking necessary steps to save their crop from rains.
Through this mission, crops worth over Rs 42,000 crore have been saved and now the aim is to extend the benefits to all the farmers in times to come, he said.
Under the mission, a British-make atmospheric research aircraft with sophisticated scientific instruments is being used.
It is capable of flying at 500 feet and is equipped to assess all intricacies of weather, the minister said, adding India will manufacture such an aircraft in next two years.
The mission was started on June 8 and it will continue till the end of this month, he said.
Harshvardhan said the capability India has attained in predicting Tsunami is of international standards and it shares such information with countries surrounded by seas or having vast coastline.
Indian agriculture is mostly dependent on rains which deliver nearly 70 per cent of water needed for farms, reservoirs and aquifers.
Good monsoon and high agriculture growth are crucial to accelerate India's GDP growth rate.
Economic Affairs Secretary Shaktikanta Das has said the country's growth rate could climb to 8 per cent in the current financial year on the back of above normal monsoon.
Farmlands across the country that are without any irrigation cover depend on the annual rains to grow a number of crops.
