MOIA, MEA merger insult to NRIs: Oommen Chandy ||||
 Kerala CM Oommen Chandy on Friday objected to the government's move to merge the Overseas Indian Affairs Ministry (MOIA) with the External Affairs Ministry (MEA), saying it is an insult" to the NRI community. While citing the proactive measures taken by the MOIA, including intervention during the Yemen crisis, he said the decision "will adversely affect the interest" of NRIs. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/19243223-0006-0001-5580-000012345678||||
Kerala CM Oommen Chandy Friday called the BJP government’s decision to merge the Overseas Indian Affairs Ministry with the External Affairs Ministry an “insult to the whole NRI community” and wrote to PM Narendra Modi voicing his objection to the move. Chandy also met External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj and conveyed his views.
He asked the Centre to withdraw the “abrupt” decision. “The NRI community is feeling let down by the government’s decision… A separate ministry for overseas Indians is a must to address their concerns,” he told The Indian Express.
He said the External Affairs Ministry may be able to intervene in issues effectively, but given the size of the expat community, there is a chance that a ministry that has to deal with foreign policy challenges will not even get to know about a problem that crops up.
“I am really shocked to hear the news about the abrupt decision to merge the Overseas Indian Affairs Ministry with the External Affairs Ministry without any consultation or proper analysis. We cannot ignore the contribution of Non Resident Indians in India’s development and in spreading Indian culture and heritage. This decision is an insult to the whole NRI community,” Chandy has said in his letter to Modi.
He said the Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs had taken proactive measures for Indians abroad. Around 16 lakh Keralites reside abroad, of which a large chunk is in the West Asian countries. “The Ministry succeeded in amending the rules for providing voting rights to overseas Indians, extending dual citizenship to them by issuing OCI cards, implementing insurance and pension schemes and controlling the recruiting agencies effectively. The Ministry has intervened effectively during crisis situations in Yemen, Libya and Iraq and also helped migrant workers secure gainful employment through signing labour contract with the foreign governments,” he said.
“The decision of the Government of India to merge the Ministry of Overseas Indian affairs with the Ministry of External Affairs will adversely affect the interest of the overseas Indians… I request you to kindly reconsider this and withdraw the decision,” he said. Expressing concern over decision to suspend Pravasi Bharatiya Divas celebrations, he said the event provided a platform for overseas Indians to raise their problems before the Government of India and state governments
