Kashmir is burning and PM is playing drums: Cong ||||
 Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Monday slammed PM Narendra Modi saying that Kashmir is burning over Hizbul commander Burhan Wani's killing and the PM is busy playing drums in Tanzania. He added that Modi must learn from 'his friend' US President Barack Obama who returned to his country in the middle of his Europe tour after the violence in Dallas. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2c5a5967-53ff-4543-bb73-4c7155810072-1||||
Kashmir is burning and our Prime Minister would rather tweet about his travels and play the drums, Congress said on Monday taking potshots at Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is on a tour of African countries.
The jibe was taken by the opposition party in a tweet posted on INC India.
Randeep Surjewala, Chief spokesman of the party, was equally caustic, who took to Twitter to advice the Prime Minister to cut short his tour and return home with Kashmir on the boil.
Surjewala wanted the Prime Minister to follow the US President Barack Obama in the wake of the Dallas shootings of policemen.
मोदीजी, फ़ौरन  देश लौट जम्मू-कश्मीर की विकट स्थिति को सम्भालिये I कम से कम अपने मित्र श्री ओबामा से ही सीखिए I pic.twitter.com/engiOHyqty
— Randeep S Surjewala (@rssurjewala) July 11, 2016

कश्मीर जल रहा है I 21 लोग मरे, सैनिकों पर रोज़ हमला, अमरनाथ यात्रा रुकी और मोदीजी ढ़ोल बजा रहें हैं I अब तो जागिये ! pic.twitter.com/Jv0YgRdND4
— Randeep S Surjewala (@rssurjewala) July 11, 2016

“Kashmir is burning. 21 people have died. Security forces are being attacked daily. Amarnath Yatra suspended and Modiji is playing the drums. At least wake up now,” he said in another tweet in Hindi.
He also reminded the Prime Minister that the PDP-BJP government in the state is unable to handle the situation and he should not throw Kashmir in the “shadow of the gun” to ensure that the peace process remained unaffected.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
At the Congress briefing, party spokesman Abhishek Singhvi attacked Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif for deploring India for “excessive” force against civilians in the Valley while expressing “deep shock” over the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani.
He reminded the Pakistani leader that his country is known in the world over as “largest exporter of terrorism” and a nation which is “imploding at seams.”
In a jibe at the Prime Minister, he said Nawaz Sharif’s statement showed how Indian foreign policy is going in “reverse gear”.
In reply to a question, he said that it would be good if the government convened an all party meeting. He said that the initiative has to be taken by the government.
“Please do not make a martyr of a declared terrorist,” he said emphasising the need to handle the situation with tact and tolerance to wean away misguided youth.
“We would urge the government to show maturity in handling the situation. The government, the NDA Government in the centre and the BJP-PDP alliance Government in the State, have to remember that they inherited a peaceful valley from the UPA Government. It was their duty to take this process forward,” the party said in a commentary on its website.
