Certificate to honour parents of girl child ||||
 Punjab's Mansa district administration has started issuing certificates, 'samman patras', to honour parents who have one or two daughters but opt to not have another child hoping for a boy. "It is a gesture to show that it is not mandatory to have a son to complete the family", district officials said. Daughters also take family legacy forward, they added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/91820021-0005-0002-9402-000012345678||||
It is an effort to acknowledge those parents who have two daughters and have decided not to go for third child in a bid to have a son.
The district administration of Mansa under the Centre’s flagship programme ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’, is presenting certificate of honour — ‘samman patras’ — along with a box of laddoos to such parents. The samman patra, signed by deputy commissioner and written in Punjabi, urges these parents to take pride in their daughters.
It reads: “Daughters are our pride. We are extremely happy to know that birth of a daughter has taken place in your family . Daughters are nature’s best gift. They are God’s promise to take humanity forward and thus they will take legacy of your family forward too. The government promises to take care of health, education and safety of your daughter. We wish the best for her healthy life. Sons may take parents to heaven but daughters bring heaven to home.”
In the first phase, a total of 20 villages with critically low sex ratio (300-600) were identified where 223 families, including those who did not go for third child after having one or two daughters in the past five years, were shortlisted and given the samman patras beginning last November.
The administration has, however, kept those families who have a son or three daughters out of list.
Speaking to The Indian Express, Isha Kalia, additional deputy commissioner (general), said, “The aim is to not let such families feel left out as is the norm in villages if you do not have a son. We have given certificate of honour to parents who had daughters in past one year and then to those who did not go for second or third child after having daughters. But those with three daughters or one son have not been included. It is clear that they went for a third child as they wanted a son. It is a gesture to show that it is not mandatory to have a son to complete the family. Daughters too take family’s legacy forward.”
The administration has also opened bank accounts of girls born in the past five years in these 20 villages under Sukanya Samriddhi Yojna and deposited Rs 1,000 in each account.
Avtar Singh, sarpanch of Gamiwala village, said, “The families not having any son are considered unlucky and avoided by those who have sons in rural areas. These samman patras will now make parents proud of having daughters and they will think twice before going for third child after two daughters.”
