AAP founding member Ilyas Azmi quits party ||||
 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) founder member and former MP Ilyas Azmi on Monday quit the party, citing "lack of inner democracy" and Arvind Kejriwal's "autocratic style of functioning". "...muslims and people from backward classes are completely being ignored. There is hardly any Muslim representation," Azmi added. This comes a week after he was dropped from the party's top decision-making bodies. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/82cff7b5-9a43-4ad5-aefb-8ccbcc06b159-1||||
A year after senior AAP leaders Prashant Bhushan and Yogendra Yadav broke away from AAP, another founder-member, Ilyas Azmi, resigned Monday alleging that minorities and backward castes were being ignored by the party. He also alleged that the AAP had turned into a one-person party.
Speaking to The Indian Express, Azmi — who is a former AAP National Executive and Political Affairs Committee (PAC) member — said, “The committees that the party was forming were either their people or belonged to the upper castes. I raised this issue in the party several times – caste-based discrimination is a dangerous thing and we need to bring an end to it. I joined the party because of its anti-corruption stand. Prior to the Delhi elections, they formed state units where most leaders belonged to the upper castes. There were half a dozen backward castes or minority leaders. For Delhi elections, all of us put our entire resources behind the party.”


Share This Article



Related Article Aazmi departure from AAP: Is dissent and `inner party democracy' in jeopardy? AAP myth will be broken in next Assembly polls: Udit Raj AAP has abandoned its core principles, says Upadhyay AAP's Ilyas Azmi refuses to fight from Lakhmipur Kheri Discontent in AAP spills in public,rebel's press meet stormed 'If surveys are correct,I'll quit politics for good'
								jQuery(document).ready(function(){
									jQuery('.rel-article').bxSlider({
									maxSlides: 6,
									slideMargin: 3
									});
								});
								
Azmi also accused the party of functioning in an autocratic manner. “After removing Bhushan, Yadav, Anand Kumar and Ajit Jha, I noticed that the party leaders liked those who agreed with them. So, I decided to skip meetings since then. Now, there is hardly anyone who speaks out against the leadership. I tried to tell them that this form of functioning was not good…” he said.
While AAP declined to comment on Azmi’s resignation, party sources claimed he had objected to the rise of AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan and minister Imran Hussain. “He had raised concerns about the importance being given to them,” said a source.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
