SC to sit for extra time to hear Nirbhaya case ||||
 The Supreme Court has said that it will hold hearings till 6 pm instead of 4 pm on the days the Nirbhaya case is listed, in the interest of a detailed and continuous hearing. It also announced that it will commence hearing of appeals regarding the death sentences of all four convicts of the gang-rape case on July 18. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c0092355-b5b2-4b22-b6db-f2da79a858a7-1||||
After being a catalyst for fast tracking all cases involving crime against women and effecting changes in rape laws, the sensational Nirbhaya case has achieved another feat- make the country's Supreme Court sit extra time.
The court said it will hold hearings till 6 pm on the days the case is listed while the judges normally rise at 4 pm.
Announcing that it will commence hearing of appeals filed by four in death row - Mukesh, Pawan, Vinay, Akshay - and the plea by the state to confirm the death sentence awarded by the trial court and upheld by the High Court on July 18, a special bench headed by Justice Dipak Misra on Monday said, "In the interest of a detailed and continuous hearing", the court will sit till 6pm.
BENCH TO HEAR NIRBHAYA'S MOTHER'S PLEA
The bench also allowed the plea of Nirbhaya's mother Asha Devi and father Bhadrinath Singh, to make them a party in the case. Their lawyer argued that they wanted to be heard "on certain aspects" of the case.
The Supreme Court had on April 8 in a surprising move appointed two senior lawyers- Raju Ramachandran and Sanjay Hegde to represent them to ensure that there were no "inadequacies" and the convicts are ensured a "full and fair" hearing.
"Considering the gravity of the case and the questions of law involved, we deem it fit to appoint the senior lawyers to assist the court", the bench had said.
While advocate Raju Ramachandran will represent convicts Mukesh and Pawan, another known lawyer Sanjay Hegde will argue for Vinay and Akshay. Ramachandran had earlier represented 26/11 death convict Ajmal Kasab and Mumbai blast convict Yakub Memon in the Supreme Court.
HEARING IN NIRBHAYA CASE FINALLY BEGAN ON APRIL 4
The Supreme Court had on April 4 finally begun hearing the appeals after keeping it on cold storage for more than two years. As per procedure, the apex court also needs to confirm the capital punishment and only then the four convicts can be hanged. The juvenile convict has already walked free after serving three years at a juvenile home while another accused - Mukesh's brother Ram Singh - committed suicide inside Tihar Jail during the trial.
The incident, which sparked worldwide condemnation and spurred major changes in Indian laws took place on a private bus which the victim had boarded along with a male friend on the night of December 16, 2012. They were on their way back home after watching the evening show of Life of Pi at a theatre in Saket mall. The accused brutally gang-raped the physiotherapy student, beat up her friend and dumped them from the moving bus. The victim died 13 days later at a hospital in Singapore.
Also read
All you need to know about the brutal Nirbhaya-like rape case of Kerala
