Mouthing Hindi dialogues was difficult: Jones ||||
 Wrestler-turned-actor Nathan Jones has said that mouthing Hindi dialogues in his debut Bollywood film 'A Flying Jatt' was difficult. "I used to fumble but then I got it. Learning Hindi was bit difficult for me," said Jones, who plays the main villain. Directed by Remo D'Souza and starring Tiger Shroff and Jacqueline Fernandez, the film will release on August 25. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/95004d2c-a0a9-46a7-b65b-19cb63e471d3-1||||
Mumbai, Aug 7 (PTI) For Australian actor Nathan Jones, mouthing dialogues in his debut Bollywood film, "A Flaying Jatt" was an uphill task, though he enjoyed doing the action sequences.
The retired professional wrestler, who stands seven feet with an impressive built, plays the role of a super villain, Raka, in the Remo D'Souza-directed superhero film alongside Tiger Shorff and Jacqueline Fernandez.
"I haven't been given too many dialogues to say in the past. I was a little nervous as sometimes makers change it at the last minute. So I would be surprised how did it change? I had practised a lot," Nathan told PTI.
"But then they makers changed it a little bit here and there. It was hard to de-program. I used to fumble but then I got it. So those were the things that were difficult. Learning Hindi was bit difficult for me."
The "Mad Max: Fury Road" star says since he has been a wrestler, he was at ease doing action sequences in the movie.
"I am comfortable with action because of my wrestling background. It is my forte. We used to rehearse it and I used to pick it up quickly. I feel if there is something that you practise and do again and again, it becomes easy."
The 47-year-old actor reveals he was in Thailand when he got a call from the makers of "A Flying Jatt" and what drew him to Bollywood was his role and the script.
"I like the idea of the film. I felt it was perfect for me and my career. It's really utilising what I have (referring to his look). It is not just about senseless violence, it has great substance."
Nathan feels that children are going to love the film.
"The film is a complete family entertainer with a wonderful message. This film is for the kids and I am sure they are going to love it," Nathan adds.
