Delhi: All cars allowed to run on Sundays ||||
 The Delhi government on Monday announced that both odd and even number plated cars will be allowed to ply on Delhi roads on Sundays. The state government had announced the odd-even car rule for the remaining six days on Sunday. Also, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal mentioned that the move will be discontinued after 10-15 days if people faced problems. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/87683804-0011-0012-1129-000012345678||||
Both the odd and even-numbered cars will be allowed to ply on Sundays, the AAP government today announced adding that it is the “responsibility” of the Delhi Police to implement the formula to curb air pollution in the national capital.
Delhi Home Minister Satyendra Jain said that government has started a series of meetings to roll out strategy on the issue and DMRC will also be asked to increase its working hours to accommodate a huge crowd of passengers.
As per Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s plan, odd-numbered cars will be allowed to ply on Monday, Wednesday and Friday while even-numbered vehicles will run on the other days – Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
Government will only allow emergency vehicles like PCR van, fire tenders, ambulances on the roads of the national capital.
“We will allow odd and even numbered vehicles on Sunday as there is no heavy traffic on the capital’s roads on that day. We have enough time to make a strategy on the implementation of odd and even formula,” Jain, who is also Health and PWD Minister, said.
Asked about the Delhi Police not being informed before introducing even and odd formula, Jain said, “Police is a part of government and they (police) are not the government. It is their responsibility (Delhi Police) to implement the law enacted by the government.”
The minister said that Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Cluster have been asked to increase the frequency of their buses by 20 per cent.
“Besides, Metro will also be asked to increase their working hours so that people don’t have to face problem while using public transport. If we increase public transport by 20 per cent, there will be no problem for people,” he also said.
Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on said that the government would discontinue the move after 10 to 15 days if people faced problems.
On December 4, the AAP government had come out with a plan of restricting private vehicles bearing odd and even registration numbers to alternate days from January 1 in the national capital.
