Owaisi betrayed the nation by helping ISIS: BJP ||||
 Slamming AIMIM President Asaduddin Owaisi for offering legal help to arrested ISIS suspects, BJP on Sunday accused him of "betraying" India and "standing with the extremists". Owaisi is "helping the ISIS", which recently came up with a video threatening to target India, Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said. The BJP also demanded that investigating agencies take legal action against Owaisi. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0011486a-958e-4183-abd6-7b10edabe583-1||||
(PTI) Slamming AIMIM President Asaduddin Owaisi over his decision to provide legal help to men arrested for allegedly being members of an ISIS module, BJP on Sunday accused him of “betraying” the country and sought action against him for “helping” the terror group.
Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi alleged that Owaisi is giving “oxygen” to terrorists and that he is seen as “standing with extremists”.
“Owaisi is directly or indirectly helping the ISIS which had come up with a video in which it threatened to target India. This is betrayal of the country. On the one hand you condemn the ISIS and on the other hand you support those who are involved in such acts.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
“The investigating agencies should take action against him within the legal framework. Those who support terrorism directly or indirectly should be condemned,” BJP National Secretary Shrikant Sharma said.
The NIA has arrested five persons from Hyderabad for their alleged links with the ISIS. Owaisi had said his party would provide legal help to them while holding AIMIM does not support terrorism.
“One should not stoop down to this level in politics that you are seen standing with terrorism and those who support it. Those who give such statements are giving oxygen to terrorism. You do politics but refrain from actions that make it seem like you are supporting terrorism,” Naqvi said.
BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said before jumping onto anything, Owaisi should have weighed the pros and cons because the evidence suggests that the arrested youths were allegedly planning to carry out terror-related activities during Ramzan.
“The media is clearly pointing towards evidence that clearly seems to suggest that this is the plot and there is evidence to back it up.
“Now before jumping into it, one should weigh the pros and cons because tomorrow if the court finds that the evidence is sufficient, they are convicted for an act of terror, they are sentenced, then Mr Owaisi will definitely answer a question. Was he openly helping terrorist and that he was very eager to help terrorists?” Kohli said.
Sharma said terrorism should not be seen through religion and also took a dig at those who had targeted the Modi government over intolerance issue as he questioned their silence.
