UN Chief urges India, Pakistan to hold talks ||||
 UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has said that the differences between India and Pakistan can only be resolved through a dialogue. "I have urged leaders of both countries to resolve all differences through talks, he said. "[A]n improved relationship between India and Pakistan could create a more conducive environment for both countries to stem the threat posed by terrorism", Ban added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/13531185-0016-0011-0189-000012345678||||
Improved relations between India and Pakistan could create a more conducive environment for the two nations to stem the threat posed by terrorism, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has said, asserting that dialogue is the only way for them to resolve the differences.
“I am convinced that dialogue is the only way forward for improving relations between Pakistan and India. I have urged leaders of both countries to resolve all differences through talks and have offered my good offices to that end,” Ban told PTI.
He noted that he has publicly called on both countries to exercise restraint in dealing with any incidents.
Given the significant threat terrorism has become to international peace and security, Ban said an improved environment between India and Pakistan could help both nations to tackle the threat posed by the scourge.
“I believe that an improved relationship between India and Pakistan could create a more conducive environment for both countries to stem the threat posed by terrorism,” he said.
Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, in his address to the UN General Assembly debate this year, had proposed a four-point peace initiative to which External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj had responded that Pakistan should address just “one issue” of giving up terrorism.
The UN chief said that he is aware of the proposals on resuming talks between the two countries presented by leaders of both countries during the General Debate at the United Nations Headquarters this September.
“Terrorism has become a significant threat to international peace and security and is causing huge losses every day, as evidenced by recent horrific attacks in places such as Lebanon and Paris,” he said.
“Member States must work together towards curbing and eradicating this menace,” he said.
He noted that Pakistan has suffered many terrorist attacks for which its people have paid a heavy price and the country’s authorities have been making efforts to combat terrorism on its soil.
