UP govt promotes state's film policy at Cannes ||||
 The Uttar Pradesh government is promoting its policy on films at the ongoing Cannes International Film Festival. We have received interest from filmmakers based in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, UK and China to shoot their films in UP, UP Film Development Council Vice-chairman Gaurav Dwivedi said. He added that foreign filmmakers show interest in shooting in Agra and Varanasi. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/648c476b-d90e-48ce-9ddb-3e0b8778b961-1||||
With Uttar Pradesh emerging as a new destination for film makers, the state government is promoting its cinema policy at the Indian pavilion of ongoing Cannes International Film Festival.
A three-member delegation is participating at the festival and a team of renowned Bollywood personalities are representing the state at the event.
This is the first time for Uttar Pradesh to attend any film festival and they are looking forward to partner with foreign film makers through their film development council for co-producing movies that will be shot in the state.
“We have received interest from film makers based in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, UK and China to shoot their films in UP,” UP Film Development Council, Vice-chairman, Gaurav Dwivedi told PTI over phone from Cannes.
He said that foreign filmmakers are keen to shoot in Agra and Varanasi.


“Australian film maker Christopher Simon has shown interest to shoot a period film set around 1950s in Lucknow and Kanpur. UK based Shirali Le Mercier, Emilia Wileman and Canada’s Mahi Kaur will shoot their films in Varanasi,” Dwivedi said.
According to UP Film Development Council member Vishal Kapoor, there is tremendous scope to develop UP as an attractive movie shooting destination, which will help create jobs in the state.
“UP’s participation in the international film festival will enhance the state’s image at the global platform. This will not only attract foreign tourists to UP, but also increase job opportunities,” Kapoor said.
Entertainment Videos by Indian Express
