69 journalists killed globally in 2015: Report ||||
 According to a report by the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists, 69 journalists were killed globally while doing their job in 2015 with Syria being the most dangerous place for journalists. At least 28 journalists received death threats before being killed. Other unsafe countries for journalists were Iraq, Yemen, Brazil and Bangladesh. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/77062203-0008-0012-3938-000012345678||||
 
A total of 110 journalists were killed around the world in 2015, Reporters Without Borders (RSF) said today, warning that more were being deliberately targeted for their work in supposedly peaceful countries. Sixty-seven journalists were killed in the line of duty this year, and another 43 died in circumstances that were unclear, the watchdog group said in its annual roundup.
Another 27 non-professional “citizen-journalists” and seven other media workers were also killed. The high toll is “largely attributable to deliberate violence against journalists” and demonstrates the failure of initiatives to protect media personnel, the report said, calling for the United Nations to take action.
In particular, the report shed light on the growing role of “non-state groups” — often jihadists such as the Islamic State group — in perpetrating atrocities against journalists. In 2014, it said, two-thirds of the journalists killed were in war zones. But in 2015, it was the exact opposite: “Two-thirds were killed in countries ‘at peace’.”
“The creation of a specific mechanism for enforcing international law on the protection of journalists is absolutely essential,” RSF Secretary General Christophe Deloire said. “The 110 journalists killed this year need a response that matches the emergency. A special representative of the United Nations secretary-general for the safety of journalists must be appointed without delay.”
The 67 deaths bring to 787 the total number of journalists who were murdered, knowingly targeted or killed in the course of their work since 2005, the Paris-based organisation said. In 2014, there were 66 such fatalities. War-torn Iraq and Syria were the most dangerous places in the world this year for journalists, with 11 and 10 fatalities respectively, the RSF report found.
Third on the list was France, where eight journalists were killed a jihadist assault in January on the offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in an assault that shocked the world. “Charlie Hebdo’s journalists and employees have been living under close protection ever since. Some of them still have to keep changing their place of residence.”
Those murdered in Syria included Japanese freelance reporter Kenji Goto, whose execution by the Islamic State group was unveiled in a macabre video in January. The RSF report also singled out India, where nine journalists had been murdered since the start of 2015, some of them for reporting on organised crime and its links with politicians and others for covering illegal mining.
India saw five journalists killed in the course of their work and four for uncertain reasons, which is why it ranked below France where the cause of death was known. “Their deaths confirm India’s position as Asia’s deadliest country for media personnel, ahead of both Pakistan and Afghanistan,” RSF said, urging the Indian government to establish “a national plan for protecting journalists”.
In Bangladesh, four secularist bloggers were killed in acts claimed by local jihadists.
 
