SC orders CBI to probe BSP leader Pal's murder ||||
 The Supreme Court on Friday directed the CBI to conduct a probe into the 2005 murder of Bahujan Samaj Party leader Raju Pal. The petitioner, Pal's wife, alleged the murder to have been political, and carried out at the behest of the Samajwadi Party. It was further alleged that the investigation carried out by the state had not been impartial. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/73869083-0014-0001-7691-000012345678||||
The Supreme Court on Friday ordered a CBI probe into the murder of Bahujan Samaj Party leader Raju Pal in 2005 in Uttar Pradesh.
A bench comprising Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose and Justice Amitava Roy, while allowing the plea of the Pooja Pal, wife of slain leader, asked the probe agency to conclude the probe in the case preferably within six months.
On February 3, 2006, the apex court had issued notice to the then Mulayam Singh Yadav government and CBI in connection with the murder of the BSP legislator who represented Allahabad West constituency in the UP assembly.
The court had also issued notice to then Samajwadi Party MP Atiq Ahmed and his brother Ashraf Ahmed, who were arrested by the police on charge of murder.
In her plea, Pooja Pal had sought a probe into the case by an independent agency citing threat to her life as well as to Raju’s mother from the Samajwadi Party.
The court had then directed the Uttar Pradesh Police to provide security to the two.
The petitioner had alleged that it was a political murder carried out at the behest of the Samajwadi Party and claimed that the investigation carried out by the state police had not been fair and impartial and was shrouded in mystery.
The controversial BSP MLA Raju Pal and two others were shot dead and his wife and another person seriously injured by unidentified assailants in Allahabad on January 25, 2005.
The apex court on April 4, 2006, had stayed the trial of the case before a Fast Track Court in Allahabad.
Later, Atiq Ahmed and his brother was arrested and a charge sheet was filed against them for allegedly conspiring to eliminate Raju Pal.
