90 cross-border infiltration bids in J&K in 2016 ||||
 As many as 90 cross-border infiltration bids in Jammu and Kashmir were reported from January to June 2016, as against 29 attempts in the year-ago period, MoS for Home Affairs Hansraj Ahir informed on Wednesday. Of the 90 attempts, 54 were "successful", Ahir added. Further, he said 10 CRPF personnel have died in seven different attacks in Kashmir this year. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2ac6a33d-4051-4bbe-b76a-00b10cfffc9e-1||||
There has been a sudden jump in infiltration bids by terrorists from across the border in Jammu and Kashmir and 54 such “successful” incidents were reported in the first six months this year, Minister of State for Home Hansraj Ahir said on Wednesday.
“There is an increase in infiltration bids by terrorists from across Indo-Pakistan border in Jammu and Kashmir during this year,” he said replying to a written question in Rajya Sabha.
Ahir said there were 90 infiltration attempts till June 30 in comparison to 29 attempts in the corresponding period in 2015.
As many as 54 infiltrations have been successful in the first six months this year in comparison to the corresponding period last year.
The minister said though security forces maintain high level alertness during their duties, still terrorist attacks are hard to mark in advance, that too, precisely on ground.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
 
“Intelligence inputs keep troops vigilant and help them to be in a position to repulse any attack which has been done in the Pampore attack in which both militants were neutralised,” he said.
Replying to another question, the minister said seven terrorist attacks on CRPF personnel have taken place in Kashmir Valley during the current year till July 14 in which 10 CRPF personnel were martyred and 43 personnel sustained injuries.
Three BSF personnel were killed and seven BSF jawans received injuries in different incidents this year.
Some of the terrorists killed have been identified. Terrorists identified comprise both local and foreign ones, he said.
Ahir said the Standard Operating Procedures have been reviewed by Central Armed Police Forces concerned and all field formations in Jammu and Kashmir have been sensitised about the latest modus operandi of militants and threat perception to prevent attacks in future, he said.
