'Saffronisation will happen if it helps nation' ||||
 Minister of State for HRD Ram Shankar Katheria has said that saffronisation of education and the country will happen if it helps. "If students do not read about Maharana Pratap or Shivaji, will they then read about Genghis Khan?" he asked. He said this while addressing a function at Lucknow University to celebrate Hindvi Swaraj Diwas Samaroh. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/265061d6-6216-44b0-8c01-21020520b859-1||||
Minister of State for HRD Ram Shankar Katheria has reportedly said there will be bhagwakaran (saffronisation) of both education and of the country, if it is good for the country.
“I am saying there will be saffronisation in education and in the country. Whatever is good will definitely take place. Be it saffronisation or following the ideas of the Sangh, if it’s good for the country then it will definitely take place (…Shiksha mein bhi bhagwakaran aur desh mein bhi bhagwakaran hoga. Jo desh ke liye achchha hoga woh hoga. Chahe woh bhagwakaran ho ya Sanghwaad ho),” PTI quoted him as having said.
The minister was addressing a function at Lucknow University on Saturday to celebrate ‘Hindvi Swaraj Diwas Samaroh’ to mark the 342nd coronation year of Shivaji.
Watch Video: What’s making news
“We have been seeing this for a long time… Whatever is in the interest of the country, for the benefit of the country, on the basis of which the nation can stand with pride in the world, should it not be made part of the syllabus or should it not been taught to our children,” he was quoted as saying.
“If students do not read about Maharana Pratap or Shivaji, will they then read about Ghengis Khan?” he asked.
On Sunday, Katheria accused the Samajwadi Party government of direct involvement in the violence at Jawahar Bagh in Mathura earlier this month, in which 29 people, including two policemen, were killed. Katheria demanded a CBI probe into the violence.
The minister was addressing a gathering at a school in Etah district. Responding to questions on the alleged exodus from Kairana, he said that migration is wrong, “whether it is of Hindus or of Muslims”.
“Pradesh me andha kanoon chal raha hai. Yahi kaaran hai ki log palaayan ko majboor hain. Aur iska shreya rajya sarkar ko jaata hai (There is no law and order in the state. This is why people are being forced to flee. The credit for this must go to the state government),” he said.
Taking an apparent dig at Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, Katheria said that those who sell their party tickets during elections were demanding CBI inquiries against others; such people would be in great trouble if a CBI inquiry was ordered against them.
