Top Maoist leader with 25 lakh reward surrenders ||||
 Bada Vikash, the second-in-command in Jharkhands Naxal hierarchy, on Thursday surrendered before the police. Vikash carried a reward of 25 lakh on his head and was wanted by the police in at least 76 Naxal-related cases. He was reportedly influenced by the state governments initiative to bring back Naxals in the mainstream and rehabilitate them under the surrender policy. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/76b24bf9-3eca-4a19-91e0-f994807fa928-1||||
ONE OF Jharkhand’s top Maoist leaders, Balkeshwar Oraon alias Bada Vishal, surrendered before DGP D K Pandey at the police headquarters Thursday. Oraon, considered second-in-command after Arvind Ji in the state’s Maoist hierarchy, carried a reward of Rs 25 lakh on his head. He had joined the Maoist organisation in 1995.
Among the major operations in which Oraon — along with Arvind and others — took part was the January 2013 Latehar attack in which the rebels first ambushed a CRPF team and then used a body as a booby trap. They planted a bomb inside the body and another underneath it. At least 10 security personnel and four villagers were killed in the attack.
DGP Pandey said Oraon’s surrender this was a major blow to the Maoists and would also help motivate youngsters to shun guns.
Watch Video: What’s making news
A total of 76 cases were registered against Oraon in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh.
According to the police, Oraon was Special Area Committee member of the Bihar-Jharkhand-North Chhattisgarh of the CPI (Maoists) for over six years. He had 37 cases registered against him in Jharkhand’s Latehar district and 17 in Garhwa, and 22 cases in Chhattisgarh.
As per Jkarkhand government’s surrender policy, his kin would get the reward money and he would be kept in open jail in Hazaribagh. Besides, some other facilities like Indira Awas and provision of a lawyer to fight his cases will be extended to him. The police will also try to get his cases tried expeditiously.
IG (Operations) M S Bhatia said: “Oraon was also involved in extracting levy, besides recruiting youngsters. Now that he has surrendered, we hope many of the youngsters who took up guns under his influence will follow suit.”
Apart from the Latehar incident, Oraon was involved in incidents like attacking a passenger train. “He was involved in almost all the cases of Maoist attacks on security forces ,” said Bhatia.
