Curfew intact in J&K on Day 29, death toll reaches 54 ||||
 As the unrest situation in Jammu and Kashmir continued for the 29th consecutive day on Saturday, curfew remained intact in some parts of the state while death toll reached 54. The clashes, which broke out after Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani was killed by Indian security forces in an encounter on July 8, has injured over 6,000 people so far. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/0ed054d6-5886-4214-9d6e-7034696fafe2-1||||
Curfew continued on Saturday in many parts of Kashmir, a day after fresh violence left three persons dead and 150 injured, while normal life remained paralysed for the 29 consecutive day. “Curfew remains in force in six police station areas of Srinagar — Nowhatta, Khanyar, Rainawari, Safakadal, Maharajgunj and Batamaloo — as a precautionary measure to maintain law and order,” a police official said.
Clashes broke out between protesters and security forces in Anantnag and Shopian districts of south Kashmir on Saturday even as the curfew continued and normal life remained paralysed. 21 persons were injured in violence in Chee in Anantnag when protesters staged a rally, another police official said, adding the security forces used various crowd control measures to disperse the protesters. Protesters pelted stones at a police post at Herpora in Shopian but there were no reports of anyone getting hurt in the incident so far, he added.
Curfew was also in force in four towns of Budgam district — Chadoora, Khansahib, Magam and Budgam , Anantnag town and Khanpora area of Baramulla district. “Restrictions on assembly of four or more people continue to remain in effect in rest of the Valley,” the official said. He said the curbs on movement of people had to be extended on Saturday in view of fresh violence in some parts of the Valley on Friday which left three persons dead and over 150 others injured.
54 people have died and more than 6,000 injured in clashes between protesters and security forces following the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani in an encounter on July 8. Normal life remained disrupted due to the curbs imposed by the authorities and the separatist sponsored strike. Schools, colleges, business establishments, petrol pumps banks and private offices remained closed while public transport remained off roads.
The attendance in government offices was also thin, the official said. Mobile internet services continued to remain snapped in the entire Valley where the outgoing facility on prepaid connections is barred. The separatist camp has extended the shutdown call in Kashmir till August 12.
