Railways commences second trial of Talgo train ||||
 The Indian Railways on Saturday commenced the second trial-run of the Spanish Talgo train on the Mathura-Palwal route. The train, with nine lightweight coaches, clocked a speed of 120 kmph while covering the 84-km distance in 53 minutes, an official said. The trial will go on for 25 days and the speed will go up to 180 kmph, he added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/82dc05ed-389d-484f-8c42-31a9f289e030-1||||
Spanish train Talgo on Saturday commenced its second phase trial from Mathura at 120 km per hour speed with senior officials from Spain and Railways onboard.
The train with nine coaches started the journey at 12.40 PM from Mathura and reached Palwal at 1.33 PM covering the 84 km distance in about 53 minutes, said a senior railway official who is part of the testing team.
The trial between Mathura and Palwal will go on for 25 days and the speed will go up to 180 kmph this time, he said.
Asked about the trial results, he said “prima facie it seems to be okay. But it will be known only after the examination of the various datas being recorded during the trial journey.”
Earlier, the speed was ranging between 80-115 km per hour during the first trial between Bareilly and Moradabad stations last month.
Hauled by a 4,500 HP diesel engine, Talgo coaches are lightweight and designed in a way that it can run on curves without decelerating the speed.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
 
A team of Spanish officials along with railways officials and experts from Research Designs & Standards Organisation (RDSO) were present onboard during the trial.
The train consists of two Executive Class cars, four Chair Cars, a cafeteria, a power car and a tail-end coach for staff and equipment. Shipped from Barcelona, the Talgo aluminium coaches anchored at Mumbai port on April 21.
Besides speed, testing team will also take note of vibration, safety and stability of lightweight coaches during the trial and these technical parameters were vital for high speed run.
There will also be a final trial between Mumbai-Delhi route before finalising the report.
After the successful launch of semi-high speed (160 kmph) Gatimaan Express on the Delhi-Agra route in April, Talgo trial is being conducted as part of railways strategy to increase the speed of trains.
According to the plan, Talgo train is expected to press into service on Delhi-Mumbai sector.
Currently, Delhi-Mumbai Rajdhani Express runs at an average speed of 85 km per hour while the Talgo train can maintain an average speed of 125 km per hour. Talgo envisages the journey between Delhi and Mumbai can be completed in about 12 hours as compared to 17 hours at present.
Besides reducing travel time, Talgo’s lighter trains consume 30 per cent less energy.
The Railways has set up a Mobility Directorate to work on strategies to increase speed of trains.
