Maha: Women in Buldhana district want liquor ban ||||
 After three districts of Maharashtra - Wardha, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur banned liquor consumption, sale and manufacturing in the last five years, villagers of Buldhana district, mainly women, are now voicing their disapproval on liquor and pushing for a clampdown. The issues were brought to light after the women complained of financial hardships owing to liquor sale and took to streets. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/98083328-0008-0011-9998-000012345678||||
Villagers, especially women, said they were facing financial hardship and harassment because of massive sale and consumption of liquor in their villages. Some also complained about the sale of illicit liquor in the district.
An official present at the meeting said, “It was a preliminary meeting to address the concerns of the villagers…”
A formal decision on liquor ban has to be taken by the Cabinet lead by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. It also mandates the majority approval for the ban from the gram panchayats in their respective districts.
Sources in the ministry of finance and revenue revealed, “At this moment, there is no proposal before us to impose a blanket ban on liqour.”
Maharashtra has confined the ban on liquor consumption, sale and manufacturing to only three districts of Wardha, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur. All three districts are in the Vidarbha region. The liquor ban came into effect in Chandrapur, which is the hometown of Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, in January 2015. In Gadchiroli, it was banned in 2010. In Wardha, liquor was never allowed as it was associated as Mahatma Gandhi’s ‘karma bhoomi’. Gandhiji’s ashram Sevagram is located in Wardha.
After the Chandrapur liquor ban, people in Yavatmal and Buldhana districts are voicing similar demands. The villagers, in the last six months, have taken to streets to voice their disapproval on liquor. The protests have mostly been led by women.
On October 2, hundreds of women and youth from rural areas demonstrated and staged dharna, demanding prohibition in Yavatmal and Buldhana districts. The protesters, belonging to Swamini Darubandi Abhiyan of Yavatmal and Astitva Sanghatana of Buldhana, protested on Gandhi Jayanti.
