Dividend distribution policy must for top firms ||||
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India has made it mandatory for the top 500 listed firms to frame a dividend distribution policy, so that the investors get a clearer picture on their returns. Sebi said the companies will have to list circumstances when the shareholders may or may not expect a dividend, and inform how they'll utilise extra profits. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/2064b02e-d202-4166-8c1a-7da51c8a6019-1||||
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has directed top 500 listed companies to formulate a ‘dividend distribution policy’ so that investors can get a clearer picture on returns from their investments in such listed firms and also identify stocks matching their investment objectives. Sebi has also notified new norms restricting transfer of offshore derivative instruments like participatory notes (P-Notes) only to entities authorised for their use and that too after prior consent from the issuer foreign investor.
Notifying the new regulations, Sebi said the companies will have to list out the circumstances under which the shareholders may or may not expect dividend. The policy will need to spell out the financial parameters as also various internal and external factors to be considered for declaring dividend. These companies will have to inform the shareholders about how they aim to utilise extra profits and the parameters to be adopted with regard to various classes of shares. The policy will have to be disclosed by the companies in their annual reports and on their websites.
Watch Video: What’s making news
According to the Sebi, investors raise their concerns against companies that are not distributing their extra profits among the shareholders. “The companies should analyse if they have reinvestment opportunities where they can plough back their profits in their business. The need to have a ‘dividend distribution policy’ arises because this aids investors in identifying stocks that match with their investment objectives,” it said.
“Only a few countries like Brazil, Chile, Venezuela, Columbia and Greece have made it mandatory to pay dividends to shareholders depending upon size of profits. Mandatory dividend rules entail pros and cons. On the one hand, they protect the cash flow rights of minority shareholders, on the other, they distort investment plans,” it said.
To start with, top 500 companies in terms of market capitalisation (as on March 31 of every fiscal) will need to frame the dividend distribution policy while the same may apply to other companies at a later date.
Further, listed entities other than top 500 listed entities based on market capitalisation may disclose their dividend distribution policies on a voluntary basis in their annual reports and on their websites, Sebi said.
