Chhattisgarh CM unveils scheme for tribal groups ||||
 Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh on Saturday launched an 11-point programme for the upliftment of tribal groups in the state. The scheme has a two-year time frame, and includes measures like houses for the landless, electricity, a hand pump for drinking water, health check-ups and ration cards for all. Tribal groups are categorised as 'most vulnerable' by the state. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/31614339-0018-0012-1957-000012345678||||
On a day that marked the beginning of his 13th year as Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh, Raman Singh Saturday announced an 11-point programme specially for tribal groups categorised as “most vulnerable” by the state.
A senior government official said in addition to the five tribes that are enumerated in the state by the Central government, there are two more that are categorised as such by the state government. “These tribes are largely still very far away from being assimilated into the mainstream,” a senior official said. The move to announce measures for their upliftment comes more than a month after Leburam, a Pahadi Korva, allegedly died of starvation in Jashpur district.
The CM said, “To announce this on the first day of my 13th year is a symbol that development under our state government must reach the last individual on the chain. I met and spent time with them today and this government is committed to their well being.”
The measures, that have a two-year time frame, include a house for the landless, a hand pump for drinking water, electricity, health check-ups and ration cards for all.
Singh insisted that the state had made rapid strides in every field and added that there had also been success in tackling left-wing extremism. Asked whether Chhattisgarh would ever see a day free of Naxalism, Singh said, “There was a time when north Chhattisgarh…was rife with Naxal threat. That has now ended. What is left is Bastar, and even there we have controlled it to a large extent. They have been boxed in to a small area, and that too will end.”
