NC open to alliance with BJP in J&K: Abdullah ||||
 Former J&K CM Farooq Abdullah on Saturday told reporters that his National Conference (NC) party is "open to an alliance" with the BJP in the state if they received "any such offer". The former CM also blamed the Mehbooba Mufti-led PDP for the "uncertainty in the state" over government formation and the "differences between parties" for the stalemate. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/15265353-0007-0001-6798-000012345678||||
IN A twist to the ongoing stalemate on government formation in Jammu and Kashmir, National Conference (NC) patron and former chief minister Farooq Abdullah Saturday said his party would consider a tie-up with the BJP to form the government if it received any such proposal.
“It is not that we have shut our doors,” Farooq told reporters at Katra when asked about NC’s response if an offer came from the BJP. “The National Conference will call its working committee meeting and place such proposal before it for discussion. Our doors are open.”
“However, we also have to see that those having friends continue their friendship,” he said in reference to the PDP and BJP, which had entered into a post-poll alliance to form the government headed by Mufti Mohammad Sayeed. “Otherwise what is the purpose of such friendship,” he said, holding the PDP responsible for the stalemate in government formation after the death of Mufti Sayeed on January 7.
“Otherwise what is the purpose of such friendship,” he said, holding the PDP responsible for the stalemate in government formation after the death of Mufti Sayeed on January 7.
“I don’t know what the PDP has been thinking,” he said. “I hope it comes to end and they form the government to save the state.” The present uncertainty in the state can end only when both the PDP and BJP clear their differences and form the government, he added.
The NC patron said PDP president Mehbooba Mufti was duty-bound to form government with BJP as it was her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed who had entered into alliance with the latter. “If she is her daughter then she should continue her party’s alliance with the BJP,” he said.
When asked about NC’s role to bring the state out of such a situation, Farooq said his party has never shied away from its duties. “In 1996, when no one was prepared to participate in the election, we put our necks forward and participated in the electoral process as it was necessary to save the state.”
Pointing out that Jammu and Kashmir has always been in problems, he said the uncertainty was not good for the
state. “The state has been passing through a serious situation and it has numerous enemies.
If we have to fight them, we will have to keep our house strengthened.” In the 87-member Assembly, PDP has 27 members, followed by BJP (25), NC (15), Congress (12), People’s Conference (2), CPM and Jammu Kashmir People’s Democratic Front (1 each), besides three Independents.
