52 AAP MLAs detained enroute PM's residence ||||
 At least 52 AAP MLAs, including Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, were detained by the police on Sunday, as they marched towards PM Narendra Modi's residence in protest. This comes after a police complaint was filed against Sisodia, accusing him of intimidating businessmen. Reacting to it, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had earlier tweeted that Sisodia will 'surrender' before the PM. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/b0e1de7f-3481-4032-8ef3-92650fa17669-1||||
Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and at least 52 Aam Aadmi Party MLAs were stopped and detained earlier today by Delhi Police officers on their way to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence to ‘surrender’. A few hours later, they were released.
The incident came after the president of the Ghazipur Vegetable Market Association submitted a complaint against Sisodia, accusing him of intimidating businessmen during his official visit there. Sisodia, in a sign of protest, had said he will march to the residence of PM Modi and ‘surrender’ himself.
“Complaint filed against Manish Sisodia yesterday. Manish will go to 7, RCR today to surrender himself before PM,” Kejriwal tweeted this morning with a copy of the complaint filed against Sisodia.
Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia & AAP MLAs on their way to 7 RCR to ‘surrender’ before PM Modi pic.twitter.com/ulmfScVSKt
— ANI (@ANI_news) June 26, 2016
On Twitter, Sisodia said the Prime Minister may use the complaint to frame him in matters of extortion or molestation. He also alleged that the people who filed the complaint were indulging in illegal activities in the market, where he had gone for a surprise inspection.
Ever since the Kejriwal government took charge last year, it has been involved in a tug-of-war with the Centre and Lieutenant-Governor Najeeb Jung.
LIVE UPDATES
2:00 pm: The 52 MLAs of the Aam Aadmi Party who were detained have been released by Delhi Police
12:10 pm: BJP leader and MoS (Home) Kiren Rijiju retorted to the controversy saying it’s all a drama.
“Delhi people gave mandate to Arvind Kejriwal so that his government could serve them. Instead they are doing drama,” he told ANI.
12 noon: Joint CP MK Meena told ANI that 52 AAP MLAs have been detained and since there are chances they might go again towards PM’s residence, they have been kept under temporary detention.
11:10 am: Section 144 has been imposed in the area around 7 RCR. Race Course Metro Station has been closed.
11:00 am: Today’s incident comes just a day after AAP MLA Dinesh Mohaniya was arrested by the police in conjunction with a case of misbehaviour and for slapping a senior citizen. The arrest caused AAP leaders to allege that the BJP-ruled Centre was using the police for vendetta politics.
10:55 am: According to reports, the police said earlier that they have received a complaint from the president Surender Goswami, but no FIR would be registered as no cognizable offence was committed by Sisodia.
(With inputs from ANI)
