Andhra CM inaugurates Secretariat in new Capital ||||
 Andhra Pradesh CM Chandrababu Naidu on Monday formally inaugurated the state's new Secretariat at the Velagapudi village in the new capital Amaravati. The government plans to start operations from Amaravati starting June 15, CM Naidu said. He also announced 30% additional house rent allowance for government employees shifting to Amaravati and promised 5,000 houses for them within a year. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/70564380-0007-0004-1871-000012345678||||
Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu formally inaugurated the state’s interim government complex (temporary Secretariat) at Velagapudi village in capital region Amaravati on Monday.
As there is no other auspicious ‘muhurtam’ in the coming few months, the Chief Minister completed the formalities today amid vedic chants and a Ganapati ‘homam’ (religious ritual).
A 2,000 sqft office space was hurriedly readied for use by the Chief Minister and Chandrababu occupied it to mark the inauguration.
He signed a file relating to waiver of loan for horticulture farmers on the occasion.
The government is determined to begin operations from Amaravati region from June 15, Chandrababu said.
The construction of the government complex has been going on at a brisk pace to meet the deadline. Later, the Chief Minister announced that a five-day working week would be implemented for employees who come to work at Velagapudi from Hyderabad.
Also, they would be paid an additional 30 per cent as house rent allowance.
“In the first phase, we will build 5,000 houses for the employees within a year in the new capital region. More  umber
of houses will be built in the subsequent phases,” Chandrababu said.
“Make use of technology and our e-office system. I only want that files are cleared in time and there is no corruption,” the Chief Minister said.
On the occasion, he also announced that an additional 50 square yards of land would be given to farmers of the region who parted with their lands under the Land Pooling Scheme for the development of the capital.
Deputy Chief Minister N China Rajappa, Ministers P Narayana, P Pulla Rao, Devineni Umamaheswara Rao were among others who attended the event.
WATCH | INDIAN EXPRESS NEWS PLAY LIST
