CBI arrests Delhi Principal Secy over corruption ||||
 The CBI on Monday arrested Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal's Principal Secretary Rajendra Kumar and four others for their involvement in a corruption case. According to reports, CBI found that Kumar was the kingpin in a 50-crore scam that began in 2006. Notably, the investigation agency had raided Kumar's office in the Delhi Secretariat last year drawing criticism from CM Kejriwal. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/5c8f8778-4c61-4840-82fe-a24a400ce6a4-1||||
The CBI on Monday arrested Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s Principal Secretary Rajendra Kumar and four others for their involvement in a corruption case.
CBI sources said that Kumar has been charged with abusing his official position to award contracts to M/s Endeavour Systems Pvt. Ltd. and securing government tenders worth Rs. 9.5 crore between 2007 and 2014 for the company.
The CBI said that Kumar has been booked under Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
According to CBI sources, Rajendra Kumar has emerged as the kingpin of the 50 crore scam which first started activity in 2006.
All five accused will be produced in Delhi’s Patiala House court on Tuesday.
Allegations related to bribery and abuse of position against them, further probe underway: CBI Spokesperson,RK Gaur pic.twitter.com/uyj6ls7iV8
— ANI (@ANI_news) July 4, 2016
Read Also: Manish Sisodia says Centre trying to paralyse Kejriwal’s office
Watch Video: What’s making news 
Kumar had moved an appeal before a special court in March this year seeking the release of his laptop, iPad and cash seized by the CBI. A trial court had in April also ordered the de-freezing of two bank accounts of M/s Endeavour Systems Pvt. Ltd.
Read Also: Twitterati find humor even in Rajendra Kumar’s arrest
The Delhi High Court had then stayed the trial court’s order allowing for de-freezing of accounts of M/s Endeavour Systems Pvt. Ltd.
Read Also: Kejriwal’s Principal Secy Rajendra Kumar arrested: The case file 
The investigative agency had carried out searches at Delhi Secretariat last year while investigating corruption charges against Rajendra Kumar.
The CBI had raided Kumar’s office on December 15 last year. During the raid, entry of officials and staff was banned on the third floor of the Delhi Secretariat, from where Kejriwal runs his government.
Following the raids, the CM had claimed, “It has become necessary to reveal that why did the CBI come to my office today and which was the file they were looking for. Yeh file hai DDCA ka file jiske andar Arun Jaitley phas rahe hain (This is the DDCA file under which Arun Jaitley is getting trapped).”
