Handling 2 careers in 2 continents hard: Chopra ||||
 Actress Priyanka Chopra has said that handling two careers in two continents is "hard". "Between Quantico, Ive shot my Hindi film which was called 'Bajirao Mastani' that released in December and my Hollywood movie which is Baywatch, which will release next year," said Priyanka. She added that this leaves her with no time to pursue music, which is her passion. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3d1c1bd6-0598-497c-97f2-ae50e43b1630-1||||
Actress-singer Priyanka Chopra says she wants to make more music but is unable to take out time. She feels “handling two careers in two continents is hard”. The actress started her international singing career with the single In my city back in 2012, and she collaborated with rapper Pitbull for her second single Exotic.
“Handling two careers in two continents is hard enough. Between Quantico, I’ve shot my Hindi film which was called Bajirao Mastani that released in December and my Hollywood movie which is ‘Baywatch’, which will release next year.
“I shot both of them while I was shooting Quantico season one. So yes, between all of that, it was hard to go to the studio and make music,” the wrap.com quoted Priyanka as saying.
The actress added: “I’ve just not had the time. Pharrell (Williams) said that to me the other day, so many amazing musicians you know, who I’ve met thanks to a little stint in music. I think I did music because I just love musicians, I think so. I mean I love music but I love musicians too.
“It was so cool to work with such amazing people, to watch Will. I.Am makes music in the studio. I just watched. I remember sitting there, just watching him put things together, put beats together. I mean to see Bruce Springsteen backstage. It’s been such a great journey, I definitely want to do it again. I’m just really spread thin right now,” said Priyanka.
Priyanka, who tasted fame internationally as Alex Parrish with Quantico season one, which will air in India on Star World and Star World HD from August 2, will also be hosting United Nation’s Global Citizen Festival soon. She is busy shooting for Quantico season two here
