Assams Majuli becomes Indias 1st island district ||||
 Assam's Majuli, a 400-square-kilometre island in the Brahmaputra river, became Indias first island district on Monday. This came after Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal won the recently held Assembly elections from Majuli, a constituency reserved for scheduled tribes. The decision was taken in the first cabinet meeting of the new BJP-led government, that had assumed office on May 24. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/7c3ce47c-bd16-4b3b-94de-14754702b62a-1||||
One month after the people of Majuli LAC elected BJP leader Sarbananda Sonowal to the state assembly – and who subsequently became chief minister of Assam – the island in the Brahmaputra was on Monday declared a district.
The BJP-led government also announced appointment of 10,000 TET-qualified school teachers by March 2017.
The decision to upgrade Majuli – till now a sub-division within Jorhat district – was taken in the first cabinet meeting of the new BJP-led government that had assumed office on May 24 after the BJP and its allies clinched a historic victory over the Congress that was in power for three consecutive terms.
“The cabinet today(Monday) decided to declare Majuli sub-division as a district,” PWD minister Parimal Suklabaidya, while briefing the media at the end of the three-hour cabinet meeting presided over by chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said.

“Declaring Majuli as a district was a long-pending demand of the island-dwellers,” he said.
Majuli, whose area has shrunk from about 1250 sq kms in 1891 to about 515 sq kms now because of massive river-bank erosion caused by the Brahmaputra, has been vying for a spot in the list of World Heritage Sites of UNESCO.
With 22 satras (Vaishnavite monasteries) – and home to the colourful Mising tribals, Majuli has emerged as a major tourist destination despite seasonal floods and erosion. Chief Minister Sonowal had won from the Majuli LAC by a margin of over 18,900 votes in a four-cornered contest.
10,000 school teachers
Monday’s cabinet meeting also decided to regularize the services of 10,000 school teachers who were selected under the TET examination three years ago. Government spokesman Suklabaidya also said that the cabinet also cleared the appointment of 700 doctors in different districts.
“As per the commitment of the new dispensation, the cabinet has decided to appoint 10,000 TET-qualified teachers in different schools of the state before March 31, 2017. Moreover, decks have also been cleared to appoint 700 new doctors in government-run hospitals,” minister Suklabaidya said.
Among other major decisions, the BJP-led government in its first cabinet also decided to extend one-time grant of Rs 3 lakh to the kin of over 45 journalists who were killed under various circumstances in the state in the past 30 years. Several of these journalists were killed by ULFA, forest mafia and other criminals, with not a single person arrested till date in connection with those murders.
Bhupen Hazarika’s house
The Sonowal government on Monday also decided to develop the house of Bhupen Hazarika at Kuthari in Nagaon district as a unique and priced memorial to the cultural doyen. It also decided to renovate and preserve the house of freedom movement martyr Kushal Konwar in Golaghat district. Konwar incidentally was the only freedom fighter who had attained martyrdom by being sentenced to death.
The government also decided to set up a fund for the welfare of cine-artists and technicians by collecting Rs 1 from each cinema ticket in the state. “This has been done to create a welfare fund for the cine-artistes and technicians and increase the share of the producers,” he said.
The Sonowal cabinet also approved Human Development Report 2014, according to which 77 per cent of the state’s population were not satisfied with the governance provided to them. The new government would prepare a “100-day action plan” focusing on good governance and ensuring extensive public participation in governance, the minister said.
