'Pak model Qandeel Baloch murdered by brother' ||||
 As per reports, 26-year-old Pakistani model Qandeel Baloch, popular for her social media posts, was murdered on Saturday by her brother in a case of "honour killing". Her brothers reportedly had asked her to quit modelling. Baloch earlier approached Pakistan's interior ministry for providing her personal security, after receiving threats, post her meeting with religious scholar Mufti Abdul Qawi. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/408e7668-6574-46dc-88ee-81cbd833e198-1||||
Social media celebrity from Pakistan Qandeel Baloch or Fouzia Aneem was murdered by her brother on Saturday, reported Express Tribune.
Reportedly, Baloch was strangled to death at her house in Multan but the reason for this crime is still unknown. However, Pakistani media has termed it as an incident of ‘honor killing’.
“She was suffocated to death by strangulation. It seems to be a case of honour killing but we are investigating it,” district police chief Azhar Akram said.
Her brother fled the crime scene after the incident.
As per reports, the incident has happened only three days after the information about her three marriages was revealed.
Baloch, who claims to be a social media sensation in Pakistan, was also in news recently for clicking a selfie with a Mufti who lost membership of a religious body because of that.
She was reportedly receiving death threats and had asked for security from interior ministry. As reported by Dawn, her brother was threatening her for posting videos and pictures on social media.
Qandeel shot to fame in 2014 after a video of her pouting for the camera went viral on the internet. She was followed by tens of thousands of people on social media.
She had expressed her desire to marry ex-cricketer and opposition politician of Pakistan Imran Khan and also Indian cricketer Virat Kohli.
Also read: Qandeel Baloch murder: Brother arrested, confesses to killing her over ‘controversial’ social media posts
WATCH VIDEO: Qandeel Baloch Murder: Pak PM’s Daughter To Pass Law Against Honour Killing
Also see: This video gives an insight into the life of Internet sensation Qandeel Baloch
Also read: Qandeel Baloch murder highlights how honour killings are still a deep menace affecting Pakistan society
Also read: Twitterati shocked at ‘honour killing’ of Pak model and Internet sensation Qandeel Baloch
