Maharashtra to approve guidelines for dance bars ||||
 Following the Supreme Court directive, Maharashtra will reopen dance bars in Mumbai after the guidelines get approved by the state government. Under these new guidelines, all dance bars need to have CCTV cameras connected to the police control room for monitoring. The bars should also have a 3-foot fence separating the dancers from the patrons, among other regulations. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/69079648-0012-0012-2287-000012345678||||
DANCE BARS in Mumbai and across Maharashtra are set to reopen with the final hurdle, the guidelines on their operation being approved by the state government. The guidelines will ensure, however, that much of what the city’s dance bars were known for will no longer be permitted. Among the nearly 25 guidelines to be followed before bar owners get police permissions to operate are conditions such as disallowing any showering of currency notes on bar dancers, a compulsory CCTV cover for every dance bar with the feed available at the police control room, etc.
The Supreme Court had earlier given the go ahead to restart dance bars that had been shut down at the behest of the state government The guidelines also state that there must be a 3-foot high fence around the stage where the women perform. No visitors will be allowed into the fenced area. At any point, only four women can dance on stage. “There will be a 5 feet gap between the stage and people who have come to see the performance. The dancers’ clothes also must not be obscene,” an officer said.
The bar owners should self certify and go to the police after which the police will decide whether they are eligible for a license .
Till Tuesday there were at least 90 applications pending with DCP – Headquarters – I, the licensing authority for dance bars in Mumbai.
The suggestion of CCTV footage from bars being monitored by local police stations is impractical, said Manjeet Singh Sethi, former President of Fight for Rights Bar Owners Association, Maharashtra.”The Chembur area itself has 30 such bars. How many bars will they monitor? They will have to stop all work and only monitor bars,” Sethi said.
mumbai.newsline@expressindia.com
