'Kabali' becomes highest opening grosser of 2016 ||||
 The Rajinikanth starrer 'Kabali' earned 48 crore on its first day in India, making it the highest opening day grosser of 2016. The film surpassed the earnings of Salman Khan's 'Sultan', which had collected 36.54 crore on its opening day. As per trade analyst Trinath, the film's opening collection in Tamil Nadu stood at 21.5 crore. ||||
 Financial Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/7ae7abc3-5079-4693-91ce-32b66dbfb221-1||||
Rajinikanth's Kabali has lived up to its mammoth expectations. What his fans were praying for and the industry was dying for to happen has come to pass on day 1 itself. Also starring Radhika Apte, Dhansika, Kalaiarasan and Winston Chao, Kabali first day collection has crossed the Rs 48 cr mark and has broken all records in India to become the highest grossing film. This Rajinikanth triumph was made possible despite not receiving the good ratings from movie reviews, but for his fans this was no deterrent!
"(Kabali) has made an outstanding first day collection of around Rs 48 crore. But since the reviews (are) not that great, there will be a drop in its collection from Monday," said a Mumbai-based distributor, Rajesh Thadani.
This is perhaps the first time ever that the reality has matched the hype and it took a superstar like Rajinikanth to pull off this humongous achievement. Hints had been dropped liberally by the filmmakers that Kabali would indeed become the No. 1 movie in India at the very start and according to analysts the box office counters are backing these statements with the cash in the tills.
To be sure, the fans and other movie goers had lined up in huge numbers from as early as 3 a.m. to watch Kabali first day first show (FDFS) and other people had flown down to India from Japan, US and many other foreign countries just to personally experience and be a part of this amazing experience that has rocked India from Kanyakumari up to Kashmir, so to speak. This experience is as unique as it is heady and only those who have seen it will believe it can actually happen. A sneak peek into this phenomenon: Crowds whisper Rajinikanth's dialogues, chant prayers, shout out his catch phrases, sing his songs and dance without any inhibitions in theatres and outside on streets, freely expressing their joy!
So, Kabali with a Rs 48 crore first day collection figure has left Salman Khan's Sultan far behind at Rs 36.5 crore, a prospect that many would find too difficult to believe. In fact, this is the second time a southern movie has defied trends and history to earn big-time at the box office, with the other one being Baahubali.
Backing his first day tweet on Rajinikanth's Kabali prediction, Mumbai-based trade analyst Taran Adarsh posted this triumphantly, "If this is not EARTH-SHATTERING, what is? Kabali (Tamil+Telugu) opening in international markets - Malaysia: No. 1 (Thursday+Friday), US-Canada: No. 3 (Thursday pre), UK: No. 10 (Thursday+Friday) @Rentrak."
According to a producer-distributor Kabali first day collection managed to soar to this high number because it was released in as many as three languages; he was speaking on condition of his name not being divulged.
To break down the figures, in 'home state' Tamil Nadu, 'Kabali' collections were as high as Rs 21.5 crore. According to analyst Trinath, Kabali managed to register this high collection number because the the film was exempted from entertainment tax. He added, "The start has been phenomenal. It has to be seen whether the film can sustain the momentum through the first week. It was due to the unprecedented advance bookings and Rajinikanth factor, the film managed to register good opening."
Even abroad, Kabali earnings are skyrocketing. For instance in North America, the premiere shows themselves have generated as much as $2 million from as many as 400 screens that it was released in. Sanjay Dusari, Co-Founder of CineGalaxy Inc told IANS, "It is easily the best opening for an Indian film from premiere shows in North America. The film has collected $2 million from the premiere shows".
