MP: Education fund for brilliant, poor students ||||
 Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday announced a 'Higher Education Assistance Fund' for brilliant students from poor sections irrespective of their caste or creed. "Instead of their parents, the state government will pay their fees," Chouhan said, adding that the money would be taken back from the students without interest after they get jobs. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/72ac2d05-79aa-451c-8d40-60053acaf4ee-1||||
Silvani (MP), Jun 15 (PTI) Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan here today announced to constitute a Higher Education Assistance Fund for brilliant students belonging to poor sections of the society irrespective of their caste and creed.
"We have taken a historic decision. We will constitute a Higher Education Assistance Fund this year for providing assistance to brilliant students of any caste or creed for studying in IITs, IIMs, medical and engineering colleges.
"Instead of their parents, the state government will pay their fees," Chouhan said launching the 'School Chale Hum' campaign aimed at enhancing enrollment in government schools in this MP's Raisen district.
"I will ensure that no children remain uneducated because of paucity of funds. After they get the jobs, the money would be taken back from them without any interest. I wish that Madhya Pradesh students should shine in the entire world," the Chief Minister said.
With an aim to enhance enrollment in government schools, the School Education Department has drawn a four-phase-long campaign. Currently second phase is going on.
The Chief Minister said that people used to say when children are not voters, why he is focusing on them.
"I told them, these children are not voters but the future of the country," he said.
Large number of students took part in the event. Later Chouhan also taught students in their class and distributed text-books, school bags and chocolates to them.
A student--Sanjay--handed over a letter to Chouhan on the occasion in which he has stated that his parents are no more and is being looked after by his grand-mother, who is very poor.
Moved by his plight, Chouhan directed the district collector to ensure that he is being taken care of without any problems.
He also distributed tri-cycles and wheel chairs to the physically-challenged students on the occasion.
