Tanzanian woman not stripped: K'taka Minister ||||
 Karnataka Home Minister G Parameshwara on Thursday rejected reports, which claimed that a Tanzanian woman was allegedly assaulted by a mob in Bengaluru on January 31 and stripped and paraded. At a press conference, Parameshwara read out from the victim's complaint, which found no mention about these reported allegations. Parameshwara also rejected racism as a reason for the attack. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/73947498-0008-0002-9766-000012345678||||
Karnataka Home Minister G Parmeshwara on Thursday said that a Tanzanian woman student – who alleged that she was attacked and  her car was burnt by a mob – was not stripped and paraded naked in Bengaluru.
Facing a volley of questions at a press conference, Parmeshwara said those responsible for the attack will not be spared and that the case has already been transferred to the crime branch.
“Some more arrests are going to be made depending on the inquiry. The case has been transferred to the Central Crime Branch for investigation,” he said, adding that there was no racism behind the attack and it was ‘just a response’ to an earlier accident.
Watch The Attack On Tanzanian Woman Had An Element of Racism & Mob Justice: Envoy 
“Bengaluru doesn’t have such kind of an attitude,” Parmeshwara said.
At the press conference, the minister read out the woman’s complaint, saying nowhere does it mention that she was stripped and paraded naked. He however maintained that this was according to preliminary reports and that a full report was expected in 48 hours.
He also said that the government was taking the case very seriously and that the DGP and the Commissioner of Police went to the spot on Thursday and  spoke to the affected students. “It’s clear we are taking this seriously,” he said.
Also read | Tanzania woman attack in Bengaluru: Police arrest 5, Siddaramaiah assures justice
Earlier on Thursday, the Bengaluru city police arrested five people following the complaint where the woman accused a mob of stripping her and forcing her to walk ‘without her top’ on the street, news agency ANI reported.
The alleged incident took place following a road accident earlier that day, when a car driven by a Sudanese medical student hit a local resident, 35-year-old Sabeen Taj, who died in the accident, while her husband Sanuallah sustained injuries. The complaint was filed on January 31.
