Shastri living in fool's paradise: Ganguly ||||
 Following Ravi Shastri's comments about Sourav Ganguly's absence during his interview for the Indian team's head coach position, Ganguly said, If Shastri thinks I was behind the appointment of Kumble as the coach and not him, then he's living in a fools paradise. Ganguly added that Shastri should have been personally present at the meeting instead of holidaying in Bangkok. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1fcf3912-e894-4f5d-9650-0e9f9a5aa83f-1||||
Sourav Ganguly has finally broken his silence on the controversy with Ravi Shastri over appointment of Anil Kumble as India cricket team coach by BCCI.
“If Shastri thinks I was behind the appointment of Kumble as the coach and not him, then he is living in a fool’s paradise,” he said.
READ: Ganguly wasn’t there when I was interviewed, says Shastri
“It angers me that he gave a suggestion that I should be available for such meetings. I have been a part of BCCI meetings for some time and I have always been available. My advice to Ravi is that when the coach of India is selected and one of the most important jobs, he should be in front of the committee and not sit in Bangkok and give a presentation while being on a holiday,” Ganguly said.
WATCH VIDEO: Keystrokes: Anil Kumble Vs Ravi Shastri
 
Shastri had earlier said that Ganguly was not present at the coach selection meeting when he was interviewed by the advisory committee.
READ: How BCCI shot down bid to get Shastri as batting coach
Ganguly also said that he was saddened and angry by Shastri’s comments.
“I read in a couple of newspapers and chose to ignore it. I am extremely saddened that he went on air to express his view. Specially someone who has been in every BCCI committee for the last 20 years. He has been in my position for selecting the coach 10 years back. He is aware of everything. I informed BCCI on June 19th and I have got official mails. I will circulate those mails once I get a clearance from BCCI,” Ganguly said.
READ: Kumble inherited a damn good team, says Shastri
“When you have a three-member committee and important people are involved in the decision making then it is not just about Sourav Ganguly, so these personal remarks have been very saddening.”
On Shastri making comments on public domain against him, Ganguly said:”He should have shown a bit more maturity, especially for someone who has been in such committees for more than 10 years.
(With PTI inputs)
