Sugar-free drinks also bad for teeth: Study ||||
 According to a new study by the researchers of the University of Melbourne, sugar-free drinks are as bad for teeth as the regular ones. The scientists tested 23 sugar-free and regular drinks and found that drinks with acidic additives and low pH caused visible damage to dental enamel. Most soft drinks caused 30-50% softening of dental enamel, the study concluded. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/69258747-0007-0011-0220-000012345678||||
If you have switched to sugar-free drinks to avoid tooth decay, don’t think that you’ve got rid of the problem. Even sugar-free drinks and foods may kick-off tooth decay, dentists have warned.
Researchers from University of Melbourne tested 23 different types of drinks, including soft drinks and sports drinks, and found drinks that contain acidic additives and those with low pH levels cause measurable damage to dental enamel, even if the drink is sugar-free, Daily Mail reported.
The cocktail of chemicals and acids in sugar-free food and drinks can have the same impact, wearing away at the teeth, researchers from University of Melbourne said. “Many people are not aware that while reducing your sugar intake doesn’t reduce your risk of dental decay. The chemical mix of acids in some foods and drinks can cause the equally damaging condition of dental erosion,” lead researcher Eric Reynolds was quoted as saying.
Dental erosion occurs when acid dissolves the hard tissues of the tooth. In its early stages, erosion strips away the surface layers of tooth enamel. Researchers measured dental enamel softening and tooth surface loss following exposure to a range of drinks. They found that the majority of soft drinks and sports drinks caused softening of dental enamel by 30 per cent to 50 per cent.
Both sugar-containing and sugar-free soft drinks (including flavoured mineral waters) produced measurable loss of the tooth surface, with no significant difference between the two groups of drinks, the study found. “We have even found sugar-free confectionery products that are labelled ‘tooth-friendly’ and which when tested were found to be erosive,” Reynolds said.
