Chinese subs in Indian Ocean legitimate: China ||||
 China defended movement of its submarines in the Indian Ocean saying it was "legitimate" and in accordance with "international practises". China said it does not object to Indian ships' presence in the South China Sea as long as international laws are followed. However, it objected to India's oil exploration in the region at Vietnam's behest as it is disputed territory. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c4dec6fa-b6c9-47f0-ac19-6d63efb2953a-1||||
Defending the movement of its submarines in the Indian Ocean as “legitimate” and in accordance with “international practices”, China said, on Thursday, it never objected to the presence of Indian naval ships in the disputed South China Sea as long they follow the principles of freedom of navigation.
“Talking about the submarines, the Chinese submarines cross some of sea areas and those crossings are legitimate and legal and follow the international practices,” China’s defence Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said during a media interaction here, when asked about the movement of Chinese submarines in the Indian Ocean area which has raised India’s concerns.
Asked if the movement of Chinese submarines in the Indian Ocean is legitimate then why China considers Indian naval ships presence as “wrong”, Yang said China has never taken such a stand.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
“I want to point out one thing. You said when the Indian ships enter the SCS (we are saying) it is wrong. Where did you hear that. I am from the Ministry of Defence and I have never said that,” he said.
“If it is done in accordance with the international law and as freedom of navigation, that should be lawful. Such movement should be helpful for country-to-country relations and for peace and stability in the region. All those kind of moves should be welcomed,” he said.
China claims almost all of South China Sea which is disputed by the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan.
A UN tribunal is set to deliver its verdict on the Philippines’ petition challenging China’s claims on July 12. Beijing which boycotted its proceedings said it will not honour the judgment.
While asserting its claims on the SCS, China has been saying that it never obstructed freedom of navigation, which India, US and other international community have been emphasising as it is the busiest commercial shipping route.
But at the same time China raised vociferous objections to US naval ships in the area especially in the waters close to artificial islands built by it.
On the deployment of US naval ships in the SCS, Yang said some countries from outside the region come to SCS under “various pretexts” of their self interests and in an attempt to make provocations and troubles.
“This has posed threat to peace and stability in the region. China is not afraid of them,” he said, adding that Chinese military is “not afraid of threats”.
“The military fleet coming to the SCS, what is their purpose? Is their purpose peaceful? Are they coming for a friendly visit? Or for a call on the Ports? They are welcome, but if they come for making trouble we have our counter-measures,” he said.
In May this year, four ships of the Indian Navy set out for a two and a half month long operational deployment to the South China Sea and North Western Pacific.
Indian naval ships also took part in the Malabar exercises along with Japanese and US naval vessels in the western Pacific recently.
China has, however, objected to India taking part in the oil exploration at the invitation of Vietnam saying it is disputed territory.
