Gurdaspur SP accused of harassment by women ||||
 Gurdaspur SP Salwinder Singh who claimed to have been abducted by terrorists in Pathankot before the attack and then dumped, has been accused of sexual harassment by five women constables. The women in a written complaint alleged that the SP had passed "cheap remarks" post which Singh was reportedly transferred to Jalandhar two days before the attack on the airbase. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/60451228-0006-0001-5115-000012345678||||

Superintendent of Police Salwinder Singh, who claimed he was abducted and dumped by terrorists who made off in his SUV before attacking the Pathankot airbase, is facing an inquiry after five women constables levelled charges of sexual harassment against him.
In a complaint, the five constables, posted in Gurdaspur where he was SP (Headquarters) until recently, alleged that Singh was “acting too familiar” and had been “passing cheap remarks”.
Two days before he claimed he was abducted by terrorists, Singh was transferred to Jalandhar as Assistant Commandant, 75th Battalion, Punjab Armed Police.
The five women constables, attached to the office of SSP, Gurdaspur, initially sent an anonymous complaint to the DGP, alleging Singh was “crossing the lines of decency”.
The DGP instructed Gurpreet Kaur Deo, IG (NRI Affairs), to look into the allegations. Source said Deo visited Gurdaspur a few days ago and tracked down the women constables who then jointly reiterated their complaint.
One of the complainants said she had was called by Singh to his office a few days ago. “He asked my why I was standing next to a colleague, and if I had a relationship with him. This was just not done. I protested, raised an alarm and he called his orderly inside to remove me from his office. Someone sent an anonymous complaint to the DGP. When the IG came, we told her about his remarks,” she said.
The SP, the complainant alleged, had her posted as his telephone operator. She immediately protested.
A senior police officer said Deo had recorded the statements of the five women constables but was yet to hear Salwinder Singh’s version. He had visited Deo’s office a few days before the terror attack but has not been officially called in yet.
In Pathankot, Singh told reporters Tuesday he was “innocent” and was being “implicated by some vested interests”.
“Let the inquiry be completed. The truth will come out,” he said.
Click here to read in Hindi
