Plane lands in emergency over flyer's behaviour ||||
 An IndiGo flight from Dubai to Kozhikode made an emergency landing at the Mumbai airport on Thursday morning following alleged unruly behaviour of a passenger. While several reports claimed that the man had raised pro-ISIS slogans on the flight, the officials have denied the rumours. Further, one person has been detained by the airport police for questioning. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/e88fb700-d19a-481e-a5fa-59cd64762c2f-1||||
An IndiGo flight from Dubai to Kozhikode made an emergency landing at the Mumbai airport Thursday morning following alleged unruly behaviour of a passenger.
“An IndiGo flight from Dubai to Kozhikode made an emergency landing at Mumbai airport at 0915 hrs due to unruly behaviour of a passenger,” a Mumbai airport official said.
“After offloading them, the flight took off to its scheduled destination at 1050 hrs,” he said.
The airport police said one passenger has been detained for questioning.
However, the official denied reports that the passenger raised pro-ISIS slogans. The details of the detained passenger were awaited.
In a statement, IndiGo airlines confirmed the diversion of its flight (Dubai-Kozhikode) to Mumbai this morning on grounds of unruly behaviour on board.
A little before landing, a passenger seated on 5D (who was accompanied by his brother) suddenly started misbehaving with the crew. He jumped on the forward cart (which is used for food and onboard merchandise) and sat on it. The crew immediately informed the Captain-in-command and the lead crew. The crew politely requested the passenger to step down from the cart and he obliged. After stepping down from the cart, the passenger suddenly got violent and started physically abusing the co-passenger, IndiGo said.
Taking precautionary measure, the Captain immediately informed the Air Traffic control (ATC) and the ground security staff about the situation onboard.
The flight made the precautionary landing at the Mumbai airport where this passenger was handed over to the CISF for further investigations. The matter is now with the local authorities, the airline further said.
