Irani spotted at Starbucks without security ||||
 A photograph showing Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani placing an order at the counter of Starbucks in Connaught Place without any security has gone viral on social media. Delhi-based writer Nimish Dubey, who posted the picture on Facebook, claimed that she visits the place quite often, stands in a queue, politely places her order and goes to take it herself. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/51c36721-1537-4adc-82bf-d1f1bb8814b4-1||||
Most ministers, especially the ones who are comparatively more famous than others, are less likely to travel without their security personnel for various concerns. But Union Textile Minister Smriti Irani just broke the norm with one simple move.
It seems Smriti Irani likes to live life just like normal people. A photograph of her standing at the counter of Starbucks in New Delhi’s Connaught Place has gone viral.
Delhi-based writer Nimish Dubey posted the photo on Facebook where he mentioned that she walked in without any security, politely placed her order, went to take it herself and then left without creating any fuss around. Dubey told IndianExpress.com that he has seen her visit the place often and her demeanour is the same. “Nobody came with her inside the cafe and there was nobody waiting for her outside. This is the way she always comes, on her own. She stands in the queue and doesn’t jump the queue,” he said.
Also read: Why Smriti Irani’s quiet trip to Starbucks matters
Interestingly, people didn’t react. “Most people were busy murmuring, whispering, and wondering if it was Smriti Irani because she didn’t create any fuss,” added Dubey.
It must be noted that Smriti Irani is the minister who was to reportedly get an upgraded Z-category security cover, especially after the protests against the recent Rohith Vemula’s suicide at the University of Hyderabad. Currently, she is entitled to Y-category security in which she is given a cover of 11 security personnel at all times.
One must give credit where it’s due and though she has been trolled massively on the Internet on various occasions, she is being lauded for this one.
