Pak's decision to ban Dishoom is wrong: Varun ||||
 Actor Varun Dhawan has said that the decision made to ban his film 'Dishoom' in Pakistan is wrong. He tweeted, Really upset that #Dishoom is banned in Pakistan. I don't think the film eventually shows any country in a bad light." Pakistan reportedly banned 'Dishoom' as the country's censor board felt that the film showed Pakistan in a bad light. ||||
 Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c9d2f041-d200-450d-b8ef-d043d89e90dc-1||||
John Abraham and Varun Dhawan-starrer Dishoom seems to be getting a good response in India with its high masala content. However, Pakistan is not happy with this full-on entertainer and has reportedly banned Dishoom.
The movie, which also stars Nargis Fakhri and Jacqueline Fernandez was released in India and worldwide on Friday (July 29). But as feared earlier, the film has been banned in Pakistan.
Varun aka Junaid Ansari of Dishoom is really upset with this news. The actor took to Twitter to express the same saying: “Really upset that #Dishoom is banned in pakistan. I don't think the film eventually shows any country in a bad light. It's a wrong decision.”
Varun clarified that Dishoom has nothing against Pakistan but as per the country’s censor board, the film has shown Pakistan in a bad light. Dishoom deals with the kidnapping of an Indian cricketer just 36 hours before the final match between Pakistan and India. After the trailer released, eyebrows were raised on the other side of the border.
Earlier too the actor said, "I would like to clear this. There is no negative reference against Pakistan or any community." He explained, "It is a very positive representation. In fact, what we are trying to show is that for certain people money is their religion. It’s not being an Indian, Pakistani, Hindu, Muslim or Christian. In the capitalistic world that we live in, money is the biggest driving force for most crimes."
The banning of Dishoom in Pakistan will certainly be a loss for the film. Meanwhile, some other reports also state that Dishoom has got into censor troubles in some Gulf states.
Earlier in an interview with IndianExpress.com, Varun had expressed his desire to visit Pakistan one day. The actor in fact even had a brush with a Pakistan gentleman while shooting for Dishoom in the Middle East. A senior gent from Islamabad used to drive Varun around the Gulf city and the actor ended up forming a close bond with the man.
Varun also spent a lot of time discussing films with him. “Hindi films are loved in Pakistan and he told me that they watch all our movies and hoped that I would visit Pakistan someday. I told him that I would definitely like to come. Just recently our Prime Minister too visited Pakistan. So if things become better one day, I would love to go and visit Pakistan,” Varun then said.
Really upset that #Dishoom is banned in pakistan. I don't think the film eventually shows any country in a bad light. It's a wrong decision
— Varun JUNAID dhawan (@Varun_dvn) July 30, 2016
Also read | Dishoom movie review: This John Abraham, Varun Dhawan film fails to zip-zap-zoom
