PM Modi scored 62.3% in MA: Guj varsity VC ||||
 Gujarat University's Vice Chancellor on Sunday shared the details of PM Narendra Modi's MA degree and said Modi scored 62.3% as an external student in 1983. However, the details of marks can only be provided to the candidate himself," he added. This comes after PM Modi directed the Central Information Commissioner to make details of his educational qualifications public. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/30f8b306-51cf-4cb7-8feb-ed33fa2641d4-1||||
Prime Minister Narendra Modi completed his post-graduation in political science from Gujarat University in 1983 and had scored 62.3 per cent as an external student of the varsity, its Vice-Chancellor M N Patel said Sunday, days after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal accused the Central Information Commission (CIC) of covering up the PM’s educational qualifications.
The details were shared by Gujarat University after the CIC directed it to provide the information to Kejriwal. Delhi University has also been asked to share “information regarding degrees in the name of Mr Narendra Damodardas Modi in the year 1978”.
Speaking to The Indian Express, the V-C noted that Modi had scored 499 out of total 800 in MA (237 out of 400 in first year, and 262 out of 400 in second year). The PTI quoted the V-C as saying that the PM had obtained 64 marks in political science, 62 marks in European and social political thoughts, 69 marks in modern India/political analysis, and 67 marks in political psychology in his second year MA exam.
When asked for a copy of the marksheet, Patel said: “I can’t provide copies of the marksheet to mediapersons or a third party. It can be given only to the candidate… Moreover, the university is not bound to provide any information about something that happened more than 30 years ago.’’ Patel said he has not received any order of the CIC till now, but added that “I can give copies to the media if I am directed so by the PMO or the CIC’’.
He said that six months ago, he had sent details of Modi’s qualification to one Hiren Joshi in the PMO via WhatsApp. “At that time also, I did not send copy of the marksheet to the PMO because the PMO did not ask for it.’’ “Our records show that Modi had collected the postgraduate certificate,’’ the V-C said. Modi’s name is among the illustrious alumni on the varsity’s website.
While contesting the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, Modi had declared that he has a BA degree from Delhi University and a Master’s from Gujarat University. The Congress, however, slammed the university for its stance that educational qualification details of a student could be disclosed only to the student concerned. “After the CIC asked Gujarat University to give reply, overnight it turned vibrant, progressive, and instead of calling it secret, it decided to give information along with marks. Was the RTI queries raised so far had not asked (the details) authentically?” asked Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil Gohil.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
