RS passes Benami Transactions Amendment Bill ||||
 The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Amendment Bill 2016. The bill was passed by the Lok Sabha last week. The legislation is aimed at seizing benami property and prosecuting those involved. Benami properties refer to deals where the owner denies knowledge of ownership, or the person paying for the property is fictitious or untraceable. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/42e4c68a-fba9-4671-8e13-809497ea12ed-1||||
STRESSING THERE has been good progress in the probe into the Panama papers leaks, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley warned people with undisclosed income not to miss the chance under the Income Disclosure Scheme, ending September 30, to come clean and pay tax and penalty.
Replying to a debate in the Rajya Sabha on the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Amendment Bill 2016, which was later passed by voice vote (the Lok Sabha had passed it last week), Jaitley said a law alone could not solve the problem of black money but efforts would have to be made to create fear of law.
“Since it’s the benami law like the black money law, there has to be a deterrent provision, which we have put it in this particular law, and I hope people get the clear signal and don’t give the state an opportunity as far as using this law is concerned,” he said.
Referring to the Panama papers leaks, Jaitley said a multi-agency group had been set up. “There are many people who have illegal accounts, there are some who say they have transfered money on the basis of RBI rules. That investigation has progressed a lot,” he said.
The bill is aimed at seizing benami property and prosecuting those involved. Provisions for prosecution could not be operationalised due to the lack of rules in the original Act of 1988, Jaitley said. The government was bringing amendments as a new legislation would mean “penal provisions couldn’t be applied retrospectively and those guilty of violations would have gone scot-free”.
Fiduciary and trustee holding is allowed but the investment should be made from known sources, he said. The law also provides for genuine property purchases that might have been funded by family members or other sources such as a loan. The government has accepted most of the views of the standing committee, including replacing the term “known sources of income” with “known sources” with regard to purchase of property.
Property outside the country will not be covered under the benami law but will be dealt with under the black money law.
