'Raj MLA's son was driving car that killed 3' ||||
 Rajasthan Police on Saturday claimed on the basis of CCTV footage that MLA Nandkishore Maharia's son Siddharth Maharia was driving the car that rammed into an auto-rickshaw killing three people. Earlier, two persons had claimed that they were driving the car when the accident had occurred. Further, the police said Siddharth's alcohol levels after the accident were beyond permissible limits. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3250b344-7cc0-4794-a594-85dd30d697ea-1||||
Jaipur, Jul 8 (PTI) In another twist to the BMW accident case involving a Rajasthan MLA's son, police today claimed on the basis of CCTV footages that accused Siddharth Maharia was driving the car which hit an autorickshaw and a PCR van killing three persons and injuring five others.
In the last one week since the incident, two persons have separately appeared in court and claimed that they were driving the car when the accident occurred while police maintained that Siddharth was in the driver's seat.
Kamal Nain, the investigating officer of the high profile case, said on scrutinising CCTV footages of a hotel, it was found that Siddharth was behind the wheel when the car hit the vehicles.
In different CCTV footages, Siddharth is seen drinking liquor with his friends in the hotel and also taking the driver's seat of the car while leaving from there.
The officer, on the basis of CCTV footages, said Siddharth and his friends reached a cafe from the hotel where they smoked hookah and after dropping a friend, the car reached near St Xavier school where it hit the autorickshaw and then rammed into the PCR van.
Meanwhile, Siddharth was today produced in the court of metropolitan magistrate here where his police remand was extended by two days, Nain said, adding he will be now produced in court on July 10.
Siddharth, the son of Independent MLA from Fatehpur, Nandkishore Maharia, was allegedly driving the BMW at a speed of around 100 km/hr in the wee hours of July 2. The car first hit an autorickshaw and then rammed a PCR van nearby, police said.
Of the four men who were in the autorickshaw, three were killed while one was injured. Four policemen including an Assistant Sub-Inspector were also injured.
As per the breathanalyser test conducted soon after the incident, Siddharth's alcohol level was found to be 152 mg/100 ml, while the permissible limit is 30 mg/100 ml, police said.
