AAP announces its new National Executive ||||
 The AAP on Wednesday announced a new National Executive, its second highest decision-making body, with 17 new names, including seven women. Notably, there was no female representation in the body till now. The 25-member executive includes several names from Punjab, which is going to polls in 2017. Further, five state party conveners were made ex-officio members of the body. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/96f15655-bee4-4193-ba6d-6be7511d58d6-1||||
The AAP Wednesday reconstituted its national executive, the highest decision-making body of the party, ensuring ‘fair representation’ to different sections of society. The 30-member national executive included five state convenors, who are ex-officio members of the body, and apart from retaining seven old members, brought in 18 new members.
Representatives from different states, particularly Punjab, where the party is set to contest the assembly polls, and Goa were drawn into the new national executive.
The body met later in the day to re-elect Kejriwal as the party national convenor. The national executive elected a new political affairs committee comprising 10 members in addition to Pankaj Gupta, the national secretary, and Raghav Chadha the new treasurer as ex-officio members.
Senior party leaders pointed out that while the outgoing national executive had no women, one minority community and one scheduled tribe representative, the new body had seven women, two minority and four scheduled tribe members.
The national executive retained members — party chief Arvind Kejriwal, Manish Sisodia, Sanjay Singh, Gopal Rai, Pankaj Gupta, Ashutosh and Kumar Vishwas. The new entrants included Ashish Talwar, Yamini Gomar, Rajendra Pal Gautam, Preeti Sharma Menon, Durgesh Pathak, Bhagwant Mann, Kanu Bhai Kalsaria, Harjot Bains, Baljinder Kaur, Raghav Chadha, Atishi Marlena, Sadhu Singh, Dinesh Vaghela, Meera Sanyal, Bhawna Gaur, Rakhi Birla, Imran Hussain and Amanatullah Khan.
The national executive has seen a significant change following the ouster of rebel party leaders Yogendra Yadav and Prashant Bhushan and resignations of a few other members.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
