JD(U) offers to campaign for Cong in UP polls ||||
 JD(U) on Saturday offered to campaign for Congress in 2017 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections if it announces its chief ministerial candidate. JD(U) President Nitish Kumar will "address joint public meetings" with the nominated candidate, JD(U) spokesperson KC Tyagi said. Congress must revive itself in UP and it is possible only by declaring an attractive face for the polls, he added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/db1388b4-e1c4-487a-9f30-6d5c2b0cb87b-1||||
JD(U) has offered to campaign for Congress in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections due next year if the grand old party announces its chief ministerial candidate.
JD(U) national spokesperson K C Tyagi said his party president Nitish Kumar, Bihar’s chief minister, will “address joint public meetings” with the person nominated by Congress as its face for the UP polls.
“If we want to perform well in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls to defeat BJP, then we must perform good in the 2017 Assembly polls and Congress must revive itself in UP. And both are possible only if Congress declares an attractive face as its candidate for the election next year,” Tyagi said in Lucknow Saturday.
The two parties are in a grand alliance with Lalu Yadav’s RJD in Bihar and the latest proposition is an attempt to form a similar affiliation for UP where the ruling Samajwadi Party is on a wobbly track and BJP fast gaining ground since its phenomenal performance in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls.
When asked to name a suitable candidate that Congress could choose, Tyagi said “it is their internal matter”.
On Lalu’s remark backing Nitish for the country’s top post, Tyagi clarified that his party has never said that it will project Nitish in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “We don’t believe JD (U) is big enough to project Nitish as the PM face. Nitish is definitely a PM material as he has all the capabilities to run the nation, but he is not a nominee as of now,” Tyagi said.
The JD(U) leader was in the city to flag off a ‘publicity rath’ through which the party is inviting masses to a conference scheduled for May 15 where Nitish will hold stage. The conference is being organised by the women wing of ‘Kisan Manch’ to further Nitish’s liquor ban model.
Tyagi claimed that the model has proved extremely effective with Nitish receiving invitations from Dhanbad, Vardha, Jaipur, Katak and Lucknow to address conferences. He said the Bihar CM has written letters to his counterparts in UP and Jharkhand, requesting that borders are monitored to check illegal supply of liquor into Bihar. Neither of the states, Tyagi alleged, have paid heed to the request as such a move would hit their exchequer.
On Nitish’s plans, Tyagi said through his “political conference” on May 12 in Varanasi, the CM will hope to take JD(U) into UP’s political scene.
“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be on the target for his failure in fulfilling poll promises and in controlling his own fringes, ministers and leaders who spread fear among minorities through their statements. The main thrust at the conference will be on the formation of an anti-Modi, anti-BJP front,” Tyagi said. JD(U) will hold similar meet in other districts of UP later.
He, however, maintained that his party has “no intention” to form any “anti-SP or anti-BSP platform” in UP, saying that JD(U) has “ideological similarities” with the two parties. “(Incidents of) communal flare up have been maximum in UP and this helped BJP in Lok Sabha elections. Now, if a formidable alliance is not created and BJP gets the advantage, then that will be a major setback for UP,” Tyagi said. He added that BJP stands to gain by targeting Congress, which has been left marginalised in various states, and suggested that Congress’ revival is important for the “mahagathbandhan” for the 2017 elections.
Speaking about JD(U)’s plans towards forming an anti-BJP front, Tyagi said the party will contest in UP and Uttarakhand in alliance with Congress in 2017. JD(U) has no plans to contest in Punjab where Congress will be in opposition to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the Arvind Kejriwal led party that JD(U) is “friendly” with, he said, adding that his party is also considering making a front with ‘Jharkhand Vikas Morcha’ in Jharkhand.
JD(U) is contesting in Assam, West Bengal and Kerala elections in alliance with various political parties.
