Results of Bishun Rai College students withheld ||||
 The intermediate exam results of the students of Bishun Rai College, that is linked to the  Bihar toppers scandal, have been "withheld" after "anomalies and irregularities" were detected in the functioning of the college. The Bihar board will decide on the validity of the results after the SIT submits its probe report, the board's Chairman Anand Kishore said. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/3879d3df-2496-44f5-bd6a-149b096eac44-1||||
Patna, Jul 3 (PTI) The Intermediate exam results of the students of Bishun Rai College, which is at the centre of controversy in the toppers scandal in Bihar, have been "withheld" after "anomalies and irregularities" in functioning of the college was detected, an official said today.
"The results of Intermediate students of Bishun Rai College in Vaishali have already been withheld by Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) in view of the anomalies and irregularities found in the functioning of the college during SIT probe," board Chairman Anand Kishore said.
The validity of the results have been put on hold until the SIT submits its probe report in this regard.
On whether the results of the Intermediate students would be cancelled, Kishore said, "SIT is investigating the anomalies in connection with the functioning of the college run by Bachha Rai...The board will take a decision on the basis of the report submitted by the SIT."
If the SIT submits an adverse report, then the board will have to look into what can be done, he said.
A senior BSEB official said results of the Intermediate students of Bishun Rai College may be cancelled if the SIT submits adverse report that copying, cheating, irregularities in the exam and evaluation have taken place in a mass scale.
If this happens, then some genuine students would also be affected. The BSEB has withheld the results of all students of Art, Science and Commerce streams of the college who appeared in the intermediate exam this year, he said.
The Board had withheld the result of the Arts topper Ruby Rai after she did not turn up before an expert panel for re-test on June 11. She was given another chance to appear on June 25, and was arrested by the SIT on that day after she appeared for the re-test and failed.
