Tripura to get food grains, fuel via Bangladesh ||||
 Essential commodities like food grains and fuel will now be shipped to Tripura via Bangladesh, state Revenue Minister Badal Chowdhury said on Sunday. This comes after the inauguration of the revised Inland Water Transit and Trade Protocol that provides third-country access with Bangladesh. Hundreds of supply trucks have been stranded on NH-8 since a month due to rainfall, Chowdhury added. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/1fd80a4f-2d72-4cfa-8914-7b75d6f817df-1||||
Agartala, Jul 3 (PTI) With formal inauguration of the revised Inland Water Transit and Trade Protocol (IWTTP) having provision of third-country access with Bangladesh, steps have been taken to ship essential commodities including foodgrains and fuel to Tripura via the neighbouring country, a minister said today.
"Initiatives have been taken to bring the essential commodities, including fuel and foodgrains, by using the waterways of Bangladesh through Ashuganj port on the river Meghna," Tripura Revenue and PWD Minister Badal Chowdhury told reporters here.
Chowdhury said the Assam-Agartala National Highway (NH-8) is almost closed due to damage along a 20-km stretch at Lowepoia in Karimganj district of bordering Assam due to rainfall and water-logging.
Hundreds of trucks have been stranded for almost a month, making it difficult to transport supplies to Tripura.
The consignments will be shipped from Kolkata port to Bangladesh's Ashuganj port, which is just 50 kms from here.
He said IOC and FCI have taken initiatives following Tripura government's repeated request to the Centre to transport the commodities through Bangladesh.
The revised Inland Water Transit and Trade Protocol (IWTTP) with the provision of third-country access was formally inaugurated on June 16 by Bangladesh Shipping Minister Shahjahan Khan.
He inaugurated the transit facility at Ashuganj port.
Tripura Chief Minister Manik Sarkar, in a meeting with PWD Minister Chowdhury, officials of IOC, FCI, Railways, PWD and transport departments on Friday last, asked them to take initiative to transport the essential goods through the neighbouring country.
