Hyd HC bifurcation demanded amid judges' protest ||||
 Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader and MP K Kavitha on Tuesday sought the PM's intervention for the bifurcation of the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad, that caters to both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. This comes amid protests by judges against the provisional allocation of judicial officers between the two states, over which 11 judges have been suspended by the HC. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/f6b279cf-b774-4632-80b9-82a2f8310e2d-1||||
Hyderabad, Jun 28 (PTI) Alleging that the Centre was "insensitive" in not bifurcating the High Court here following division of Andhra Pradesh, TRS MP K Kavitha today said her father and Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has proposed to hold a protest in Delhi.
She, however, said the Telangana government did not want things to "escalate to that level" and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene in the issue.
"Our Chief Minister is very disheartened by the insensitivity of the Central government. We propose to go ahead and express our protest in Delhi. But, we do not want things to escalate to that level. We once again sincerely appeal to honourable Prime Minister to intervene at this juncture and bifurcate the High Court," Kavitha told reporters here.
It would not be good if the Chief Minister holds a dharna in Delhi as it will become an international news, she said, urging the Centre to act to prevent such a protest from happening.
TRS MPs raised the issue in Parliament and Rao appealed to Modi "10 times" for bifurcation of the High Court, she said.
Prime Minister has not responded on the demand for bifurcation of the High Court so far and Congress president Sonia Gandhi also never spoke on the issue in Parliament though she talked about the interests of Andhra Pradesh, she alleged.
Kavitha claimed that the Centre was not bifurcating the High Court under the political pressure by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu.
The ruling TRS' stance came against the backdrop of agitation by lawyers and judges against provisional allocation of judicial officers between AP and Telangana.
The High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad yesterday suspended two judges on disciplinary grounds following the agitation.
Over 100 judges under the banner of Telangana Judges Association on Sunday took out a procession here in protest against the provisional allocation.
