4 Naxals killed by security forces in Ranchi ||||
 Ranchi police and CRPF on Friday gunned down four Naxal operatives, including a woman, in Bundu area of Ranchi district, after an encounter erupted on Thursday night following information about the movement of suspected Naxal operatives. "Two of our jawans were injured early in the night. However, they are out of danger," Ranchi Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Dwivedi said. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/74290615-0009-0002-2080-000012345678||||
Four Maoists were killed in an encounter with security forces that lasted for more than five hours in a forest under Bundu police station area of Ranchi district on Friday. Two CRPF personnel were reported injured in the operation.
In a separate incident the same day, Naxals blew up a panchayat bhawan and set on fire a private company’s mobile phone tower in Latehar district, the police said.
Jharkhand Director General of Police (DGP) D K Pandey, who visited the encounter site, said, “A search exercise was undertaken as part of Operation Night Dominance following information about Naxal movement in the area. The CRPF’s 133rd Battalion and the local police, besides other paramilitary forces, were involved in the operation. The Maoists opened fire when cornered, following which the forces retaliated. Search operations after dawn have revealed four bodies, including one of a woman.”
The search operation began after sunset in the forests near Ghaghrabera village, a couple of kilometres off NH-33 connecting Ranchi with Jamshedpur, in Taimar valley. The encounter took place near a culvert constructed over the waterless Taimar nullah, barely 300 metres from the highway.
Ranchi SSP Kuldeep Dwivedi said, “There was heavy firing in the night. Therefore, traffic had to be stopped for some time on the highway, as the exchange of fire was going on very close to the highway.”
Police said bloodstains and other belongings of the Maoists strewn at the spot indicated that many of them could have sustained gun injuries. “There were at least two backpacks and bloodstains. More could have been injured as the forces retaliated heavily,” a police officer said.
The police said they also found two caps — with red stars (one marked over a cap written Indian Army) — indicating that at least two of them could be top functionaries among the Naxals. The police suspect that one of the slain Naxals is Boyda Pahan, son of Vikram Pahan, a resident of Murhu in Khunti district. He had a reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head. The police are yet to establish his identity. Among the other articles recovered, the police found walkie-talkies, grenades and more than Rs 6 lakh cash from the spot.
Meanwhile, in Latehar, a panchayat bhawan in Newari village under Latehar police station area was blown up by Maoists around 3 am on Friday.
Latehar Additional SP (Operations) Manish Bharti said, “Around 40 Maoists belonging to the Shravan group blew up a portion of the panchayat bhawan. A mobile phone tower, located close by, was also set on fire.”
Bharti said the police have found handwritten pamphlets, purportedly signed by the Maoists alleging that the police, Tritiya Prastuti Committee and other groups were hand in glove and were extorting levy from the common people.
