Kareena's pregnancy wont delay our film: Rhea ||||
 Filmmaker Rhea Kapoor has said that actress Kareena Kapoor's pregnancy will not delay their film 'Veere Di Wedding', which has Kareena in the lead. "Kareena is going on with her work... as usual and we couldn't be prouder to have her!", said Rhea. The film will go on floors in August, while Kareena is expecting her first child in December. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/baf468ea-a1e6-499b-b11f-9c5e79002c36-1||||
Rumours about Kareena Kapoor Khan's pregnancy have been doing the rounds for a very long time. While the begun decided to remain mum, her nawab has confirmed the news that the couple is expecting their first child in December.
ALSO READ: Did Kareena Kapoor back out from Golmaal 4 because of pregnancy?
ALSO READ: Post pregnancy announcement, Kareena Kapoor Khan makes her first public appearance
The couple has officially confirmed the news after months of speculation. Saif told The Indian Express, "My wife and I would like to announce that we are expecting our first child in December. We would like to thank our well wishers for their blessings and support and also the press for their discretion and patience."
And this very piece of news led to speculation that this would lead to delay in Rhea Kapoor's Veere Di Wedding. Since Kareena will essay the lead role in the chick flick. In fact, with the actor being four months pregnant, it was speculated that the makers would push the film. However, Rhea has rubbished the rumours and said that Kareena is going to work on the film on time, without any delay.
Rhea was d as telling Pinkvilla , "Ekta Kapoor and I, with our families and companies, are delighted and excited for Kareena and Saif! As producers of Veere Di Wedding we are thrilled to be part of their special journey! Bebo is a thorough professional and will start the shoot of the film in August. Much like the spirit of our film, which celebrates the modern girl. Kareena is going on with her work and life as usual and we couldn't be prouder to have her!"
Inspired from Hollywood film, The Sisterhood of the Travelling Pants, Veere Di Wedding is about four friends on a trip from Delhi to Europe. The chick film also stars Sonam Kapoor, Swara Bhaksar and Shikha Talsania. It is for the first time that Kareena will share screen space with Sonam. The film is set to go on floors in August this year. 
