Akhilesh is a good boy, says Rahul Gandhi ||||
 Addressing a rally in Lucknow on Friday, Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi said that UP CM Akhilesh Yadav is a good boy', but couldnt work as per the expectations of the people. Accusing both the BJP and SP of dividing the society and calling the BSP corrupt, Rahul promised that Congress would deliver a government of development in UP. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/29c71738-cb14-4486-add3-2f44990626a1-1||||
Blowing the poll bugle in politically crucial Uttar Pradesh, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi Friday promised to install in the state a “government of development”, a “government of farmers, poor and the weak” and a “government that will bring change, and provide electricity and security” to the people.
Addressing party workers at Ramabai Ambedkar rallly ground here, Rahul launched a scathing attack on the BJP and the ruling Samajwadi Party, accusing them of trying to divide society and terming the BSP as “corrupt”.
He also defended the anointment of Sheila Dikshit as the party’s chief ministerial face, when a party leader from Chandauli district, Dayashankar Singh, asked if she was the right choice given her advanced age.
“People of Delhi are now saying the earlier (government) used to work, and now it is mere drama going on… MLAs
are going to jail… Vision is more important than age. Youth is necessary for energy but at the same time
experience is also necessary,” he said and adding that Dikshit had both “Soch” and “Dil” of Congress.
Attacking Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav, Rahul said: “UP voted from the heart to elect a young Chief Minister.
Theek ladka hai (he is a good boy). But he could not work as per your expectations.”
He said industrialists did not come to UP because of the prevailing “goonda-gardi” and “corruption” during the previous BSP regime. “Why should someone come to UP as one government fails to maintain law and order, whereas BSP’s elephant wants to eat everything,” he said.
Rahul said that while BJP and SP divided people of the country, Congress would work to bring everyone along.
When a worker, Vikas Yadav from Bhadohi, complained that it was easier to connect with the party high command during the regime of Indira Gandhi, Rahul promised to hold a “Janata Darbar” every week to meet the workers.
On a party worker’s question on when the Congress would promise something for the poor from the general castes,
Rahul said the party would bring a “government of poor” as it believes that “poor do not have any caste or
religion”.
Replying to another question, Rahul indicated that there might be some leaders, who could be brought from other parties but added that the first preference would be given to party workers.
