Aamir Khan to rap for a song in Dangal: Report ||||
 As per reports, actor Aamir Khan is set to rap for a song that will be used for promoting his upcoming film 'Dangal'. The song is said to be composed by Pritam with lyrics by Amitabh Bhattacharya. While Aamir made his singing debut with the track 'Ae Kya Bolti Tu', he also sang for the 2007 film 'Taare Zameen Par'. ||||
 India Today ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/ca08dd46-e6e5-4ddb-bddd-712fff7ebf39-1||||
Remember Aamir Khan's much popular song Aati Kya Khandala? Back in the 90s, it became quite a rage and the rest is history. And after all these years, Mr. Perfectionist is once again all set to go behind a microphone. But this time, Khan will rap for Nitesh Tiwari's Dangal.
ALSO READ: Salman advised Aamir to not go for six-pack abs in Dangal
ALSO READ: Aamir Khan's young Mahavir Singh Phogat look from Dangal
After playing a wrestler in Dangal, the 50-year-old actor will now turn rapper for the film. According to a report in Mid-Day, Aamir will soon rap for a song that will be a part of the promotions.
A source was d as telling the tabloid, "Aamir is excited about doing a rap number. It is a peppy track that will be used in promotions. After recording it, he will shoot for the video."
After making his singing debut in the 1998 film Ghulam, Aamir went on to recite shayari in films like Sarfarosh and Fanna. And the last time he crooned for a film was in Taare Zameen Par.
And after a gap of nine years, the PK actor is once again returning to singing. "But in this one, Aamir's is the only voice. Pritam has composed the song while Amitabh Bhattacharya is behind the lyrics. When the makers broached the idea, Aamir was excited and gave it a thumbs-up. However, he wanted to rehearse before stepping into the recording studio," added the source.
Moreover, the actor, who has wrapped up the shooting of the film, has already begun practicing for the song. "Pritam and Amitabh are part of his practice sessions. Mr Perfectionist wants the track to be nothing short of perfect and is enjoying trying his hand at rapping," said the source.
Directed by Nitesh Tiwari, Dangal is based on the life of wrestler Mahavir Singh Phogat. The film is set to release on December 23, 2017.
