HCU revokes suspension of 5 Dalit scholars ||||
 Hyderabad Central University (HCU) on Thursday revoked the suspension of five of its research scholars including the deceased Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula, who committed suicide on January 17. The scholars who were members of Ambedkar Students Association were accused of allegedly assaulting an ABVP leader in August 2015. They were barred access to public places on campus and the hostel. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/79267012-0012-0001-7488-000012345678||||
Hyderabad Central University (HCU) has revoked the suspension of the five research scholars, including Rohith Vemula who committed suicide on Sunday, with immediate effect.
Sources in the university administration have told The Indian Express that the decision was taken in an emergency meeting of the Executive Council (highest decision-making body) of the university and will be communicated soon to the agitating students on campus. This, HCU officials added, has been done to calm rising tempers on the university campus, which has virtually stopped functioning for the last four days.
READ: Sack vice chancellor, demands Arvind Kejriwal
HCU vice chancellor Professor Appa Rao, who has temporarily moved out of the university, is also expected to meet the protesting students today. Rao, sources close to him claim, is living in an undisclosed location as he has been advised by the state police to stay away from the campus. Strangely, he hasn’t personally met any of students on campus ever since the news of Vemula’s suicide surfaced.
READ: Dalit professors resign from Hyderabad university in protest against Rohith Vemula’s death
In November last year, the HCU’s Executive Council had expelled five students, who happen to be from the Dalit community, from the hostel and barred access to public places on campus. They were, however, allowed to attend lectures and pursue their research in the university. The students were punished for allegedly assaulting an ABVP student leader on campus.
The issue snowballed into a political story this week after, Vemula, one of the suspended students, committed suicide in a hostel room on Sunday evening.
