Ease train restrictions for Dudhsagar Falls: Goa ||||
 Goa Tourism Minister Dilip Parulekar has asked Union Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu to ease "unreasonable restrictions" to improve connectivity to Dudhsagar Falls and operate trains from Vasco to the site on a daily basis. The tourist destination at Goa-Karnataka border is currently inaccessible by train as the Railways had earlier imposed restrictions at the station near the waterfall. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a3c846c2-26cb-4316-a82f-9bddcb58af6b-1||||
Goa tourism department has urged the Railway Ministry to improve connectivity to the famous Dudhsagar Falls, which is a major tourist attraction in the state during monsoon.
The waterfall on Goa-Karnataka border which has featured in several films, including Rohit Shetty’s Shah Rukh Khan-starrer “Chennai Express”, has been inaccessible by train after the Railways imposed several restrictions at the station near it (waterfall).
In a communication to Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu, Goa Tourism Minister Dilip Parulekar yesterday requested him to intervene and request Indian Railways to operate trains from Vasco to Dudhsagar on a daily basis without “unreasonable restrictions”, to enable tourists to visit and witness the glorious Dudhsagar Falls.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
Parulekar said the Goa Tourism Department will coordinate and cooperate with local district administration to ensure that all safety measures are in place and that lives of tourists are not endangered in any way.
“It may be recalled that Dudhsagar waterfall was well connected by the South Central Railway. However, last year, the railway authorities banned passengers from alighting at Dudhsagar falls citing safety reasons,” the minister said.
Parulekar has pointed out that with the onset of the monsoons, tourists have been expressing disappointment at not being able to visit and view the waterfall.
“Goa is promoting monsoon tourism in a big way and tourists opting for monsoon holidays in Goa wish to add Dudhsagar waterfall to the itinerary,” he said.
Parulekar further pointed out that the magnificent waterfall, which cascades through the Western Ghats, is very popular and has become a must visit after the success of the Bollywood film “Chennai Express”.
“It is observed that after the success of this movie, hordes of foreign and domestic tourists are desirous of visiting this place, which is indeed a site to behold, especially during the monsoon season,” he said.
The minister said the state-run Goa Tourism Development Corporation can also enter into a tie-up with the South Central Railway to charter a bogie at reasonable cost.
