Ready for peace talks when you are: Pak to India ||||
 Pakistan's Foreign Office on Thursday said they are ready to resume peace talks when India is ready. Pakistani officials said India's work on developing a nuclear submarine fleet could impact the delicate strategic balance of the region. Further, they claimed that "arrests have been made" based on the confession of the alleged Indian RAW agent Kulbushan Yadav. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/06154154-0006-0004-1379-000012345678||||
Pakistan on Thursday said it was ready to talk to India about resumption of peace process when the latter is ready.
“Pakistan will be ready to talk when India is ready,” Foreign Office spokesman Nafees Zakaria said.
“This question has been repeatedly asked and I would not enter into the debate of what words were used by both sides,” he said at the weekly briefing.
To another question, he said that Pakistan and India are the two neighbors which “must live in peace and harmony”.
On the Pathankot terror attack probe, he said relevant departments were dealing with the finding of JIT which visited India and once the investigations had been completed and a report compiled, “we will share with you the shareable information.”
About an Indian NIA team’s visit to Pakistan, he said, “I am not aware of any official request in this regard.”
Commenting on reported test of a Submarine Launched Ballistic Missile by India, Zakaria said the development of a nuclear submarine fleet would “impact the delicate strategic balance of the region.”
On Kashmir, Zakaria said Pakistan highlights the alleged human rights violations of Kashmiris at all the forums.
He said the arrest of alleged “Indian agent” Kulbushan Yadav vindicated Pakistan’s longstanding position that India has a hand in terrorist incidents taking place in the country.
He also claimed that based on Yadav’s confessional statements, “arrests have been made”. He, however, refused to share the details of those arrests.
When asked to comment on Col. Purohit, arrested on charges of planning and carrying out the Samjhauta Express blast in 2007, he said the train attack mastermind Swami Aseemanand in public named Purohit and other officials.
“We will not go by media reports. Our requirement and request of sharing details of the Samjhauta Express terrorist attack investigations is pending with the Indian government. Despite promises, the investigations have not been shared. Let’s see when will they get back to us about the outcome of the investigations of this incident in which a lot of innocent Pakistanis lost their lives,” he said.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
