7th Pay Commission: Arrears to be paid with Aug salary ||||
 The government announced on Friday that arrears under the 7th Pay Commission will be paid to employees in cash in one installment along with the payment of salary for the month of August. The Cabinet had issued the notification for the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission on Tuesday, adding that employees will get the revised pay starting August. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/707b9a46-6abf-4daa-84aa-1d5e9db30ada-1||||
In an announcement on Friday, the government said that arrears shall be paid in cash in one installment along with the payment of salary for the month of August, 2016 under 7th Pay Commission.
To expedite disbursement of arrears, the announcement said, its decided that arrear claims may be paid without pre-check of fixation of pay in revised scales of pay. Facilities to disburse arrears without pre-check of fixation of pay won’t be available for govt servants who have relinquished service on account of dismissal, resignation, discharge, retirement etc. after date of implementation of Pay Commission’s recommendations, added the announcement.
This development comes days after the implementation notification of the 7th Pay Commission which was issued on Tuesday, following which the employees will now get the revised pay from their August salaries.
The earlier 6th Pay Commission had recommended a 20 per cent hike which the government doubled. After consideration, the government decided to accept the recommendations of the Commission.
The Central government has accepted the 7th Pay Commission’s recommendations on Minimum Pay, Index of Rationalisation, Fitment Factor, Pay Matrices and general recommendations on pay without any alteration with the following exceptions in Defence Pay Matrix so as to maintain parity in pay with the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF).
There shall be two dates for grant of increment namely, 1st January and 1st July of every year, instead of existing date of 1st July; provided that an employee shall be entitled to only one annual increment on either one of these two dates depending on the date of appointment, promotion or grant of financial up-gradation.
The recommendations on Allowances (except Dearness Allowance) will be referred to a Committee comprising Finance Secretary and Secretary (Expenditure) as Chairman and Secretaries of Home Affairs, Defence, Health and Family Welfare, Personnel and Training, Posts and Chairman, Railway Board as Members.
READ: 7th Pay Commission: Central government employees to get revised salary in August
The Committee will submit its report within a period of four months.
(with inputs from PTI)
