Comic book on CRPF men's exploits unveiled ||||
 Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday unveiled a comic book 'Ayodhya ke Shoorvir' on the exploits of the CRPF personnel who averted a terrorist attack in Ayodhya's Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid complex in 2005. This is the fifth such book in the series 'Shaurya Gathayen' (stories of valour) being published by the paramilitary force to honour its personnel and martyrs. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a53e422b-586f-456c-abb5-7fb73749ece0-1||||
New Delhi, Jul 5 (PTI) Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh today unveiled a comic book on the brave exploits of CRPF men who foiled a terrorist attack on the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid complex in Ayodhya in 2005.
The comic strip is fifth in the series of these illustrations that the Central Reserve Police Force has started bringing out since the last few months to not only honour its gallant personnel and martyrs but also to take their stories to the masses.
The book titled 'Ayodhya ke Shoorvir' depicts the tale of valour of the CRPF squad that foiled the terrorist attack on the Ram Janam Bhumi-Babri Masjid complex on July 5, 2005.
After blasting the outer barricade of the complex, five heavily-armed terrorists tried to move towards the inner barricading where troops of the 33rd battalion of the force were deployed.
The terrorists, in order to storm the 'Sanctum Sanctorum', fired heavily at the troops along with lobbing of grenades and firing rockets.
The CRPF squad, that was decorated with 20 gallantry medals for the operation, retaliated effectively and neutralised all the militants after an hour-long gun battle.
A huge cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from the terrorists.
The tale of gallantry of these personnel was led by two Shaurya Chakras, six President's Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG) and a dozen Police Medals for Gallantry (PMG).
Top officials of the paramilitary force led by Director General K Durga Prasad were present during the unveiling event here.
CRPF, the country's largest paramilitary, has been publishing a series of illustrative books as 'Shaurya Gathayen' (stories of valour) depicting the gallant acts of its officers and men.
