Martyr's family rejects CM's offering of remains ||||
 A Param Vir Chakra awardee's family refused to take soil from the martyr's grave that was brought by Jharkhand's CM Raghubar Das after doubts over authenticity and how it was handled. Widow of the martyr from the 1971 war had earlier requested that his remains, from the grave in Bangladesh, be returned. Gumla districts Deputy Commissioner has the soil now. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/92239282-0008-0012-0980-000012345678||||
The Jharkhand government faced a public relations disaster Thursday when, at the end of a high-profile campaign to hand over soil from the grave of a Param Vir Chakra awardee, his family declined to receive it from the chief minister.
CM Raghubar Das had travelled to Gumla district’s Jari village to mark Albert Ekka’s martyrdom in 1971 and hand over a vessel with the soil to his widow Balamdina Ekka. The vessel had been felicitated at multiple locations en route from Ranchi. But when it reached Gumla, Balamdina and son Vincent Ekka raised questions about the authenticity of the package and the way it had been handled.
The campaign itself had been a whirlwind, beginning with Hindi newspaper Prabhat Khabar running an interview with Balamdina (86) wherein she expressed the desire to see her husband’s remains returned. Lance Naik Ekka had been martyred at a spot that is now in Bangladesh, and his grave is near Agartala.
The story prompted an ex-servicemen’s organisation to take action. Sergeant Anirudh Singh of the Bhootpurv Sainik Kalyan Samiti said they contacted Lt. Gen. Manvender Singh, who retired from Ekka’s 14 Guards. “He put us in touch with a DIG of the BSF, who arranged for a constable to travel to Kolkata and then to Ranchi with what we requested,” said Singh.
It is not clear exactly where the soil was taken from. “There are 12 jawans…buried at the grave site. They definitely did not open it to take the soil; they must have taken some from around the structure,” said Singh.
That did not stop speculation, and later, anger about the way the soil was treated. “How could they carry it in a plastic bag? They sent it by courier to Kolkata,” said Ratan Tirkey, a member of the Tribal Advisory Council. He had taken the meaning of courier to mean the service when, in fact, a constable had been asked by his superiors to take the package to Ranchi .
At Ranchi, the government was apprised of the success. The CM declared that he would take the package to the village, but the administration did not take Ekka’s family into confidence.
When Das interacted with the family, Vincent told him that he did not wish to receive the package. The CM then handed it to the district’s Deputy Commissioner for safekeeping.
