'Won't keep account of bullets if Pak fires' ||||
 After the Pampore attack that left eight CRPF personnel dead and 21 injured, Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said, "We won't fire first but if Pakistan fires then we won't keep an account of our bullets." Singh added that Pakistan is trying to destabilise India, and its attitude towards battling terrorism is not right. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a41c831c-e8ce-48de-8907-c2b89ebe0ff6-1||||
Strongly reacting to the recent killing of CRPF jawans by terrorists in Pampore, Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that Pakistan’s attitude towards battling terrorism is not right.
Singh, who sent a committee to Pampore to look into any lapses in the handling of the terror attack that left eight CRPF personnel dead, said Indian forces will not keep an account of bullets if Pakistan fails to check its terrorist activity.
“We won’t fire first but if Pakistan fires then we won’t keep an account of our bullets,”said Singh, adding that the neighbouring country was trying to destabilise India.
We won’t fire first but if Pakistan fires then we won’t keep an account of our bullets: HM on Pampore attack pic.twitter.com/gBikuCIejz
— ANI (@ANI_news) June 26, 2016
The Home Minister said, “India cannot forget those security men who got martyred. They are not with us now and we pay our tributes to them.”
Participating in a BJP programme to mark the anniversary of emergency at Harmu Ground in Ranchi, the Singh also hit out at Congress saying the youths today needed to be reminded of it so that it does not get repeated. He also said that the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had begun introducing anti-democracy measures right since 1971.
With the BJP observing Dr Shyama Prasad Mookerjee fortnight – from June 23 (death anniversary) to July 6 (birth anniversary) – Singh remembered the founder of Bharatiya Jan Sangh, saying that it was due to him and the sacrifice and valour of the Army, the para-military and the police that Jammu and Kashmir is an inseparable part of India.
Addressing the gathering of BJP workers amid presence of Jharkhand Chief Minister Raghubar Das and others, the Singh said: “Yesterday, two Pakistani terrorists ambushed the CRPF convoy. I am proud of their valour. They neutralised the two terrorists despite being under attack. Eight of our jawans martyred. My condolences to their families…we will win against terrorism.” Singh said that the attitude of neighbouring country Pakistan was not helpful.
Singh claimed that, in the past year-and-a-half, the government has been able to control infiltration to a large extent.
Speaking about emergency, Singh said: “Many of today’s youngsters were not even born when emergency was promulgated on the intervening night of June 25-26, 1975. People were jailed for strange reasons – cutting electric poles, shouting slogans against Congress, looking into somebody’s eyes; entire system was politicised. Today’s youth need to be reminded of that so that such a situation does not arise again.”
The Home Minister said that the then Prime Minister had introduced two amendments in the Constitution in 1971 and 1972, which showed that the declaration of emergency was not a sudden development.
“In the 24th amendment in 1971, she introduced a provision that Parliament could make any change to the Constitution with no scope for judicial review. In 1972, she got 25th amendment introduced providing for absolute rights with the government to acquire any land, at any rate. In this case too, there was no scope for judicial review,” he said.
Recalling Mookerjee, the Home Minister said: “He realised while being in Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru’s cabinet that the governance was still being done on the lines how British used to rule. Usmein bhartiya tatva nahin tha (There was no Indian element). And that is why he left it and set up Bharatiya Jana Sangh in 1951. Nobody could have imagined then that a party with that ideology would get complete majority.”
