Police detains Sonia, Rahul and Manmohan ||||
 Congress President Sonia Gandhi, Vice President Rahul Gandhi, and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh among others were on Friday detained by the police. They were leading 'Save Democracy March' from Jantar Mantar to Parliament in protest against the Centre over the AgustaWestland scam. However, minutes after their detainment, the leaders were released by the police. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/25e264b5-bc69-46c5-a89f-8e37bfb4b120-1||||
Congress president Sonia Gandhi, party vice-president Rahul Gandhi and former prime minister Manmohan Singh were briefly arrested at the Parliament Street police station during their ‘Save Democracy’ march. They were later released.
The party is agitating against what it calls the ‘anti-democratic’ policies of the BJP.
In recent months, the Congress has alleged that there has been sustained efforts by the BJP to destabilise Congress-led governments in states like Arunachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. While Arunachal saw a change in leadership, the latter hill state is under President’s Rule at the moment. The BJP, on its part, has pointed to the intense factionalism within the Congress for what has transpired in the two states.
The two parties have also sparred in the current session of Parliament over the AgustaWestland issue.
Click here for exclusive pictures from the protest march
HIGHLIGHTS
Updates end.
11:45 am: Here are some pictures of that protest march undertaken by the Congress.



11:35 am: All Congress leaders have been released now.
11:25 am: The scenes outside the police station are chaotic. Hundreds of Congress workers are outside the police station where several Congress leaders have courted arrest.
Cong leaders&workers protest outside Parl street police station after party leadership detained during protest march pic.twitter.com/dR23o0jWcS
— ANI (@ANI_news) May 6, 2016
11:12 am: It has been reported that the police have refused to allow Congress leaders to march to Parliament House. Senior Congress leaders including Sandeep Dikshit have decided to court arrest to protest police action.
11:10 am: As thousands of Congress workers broke the barricades and started marching to Parliament House, the police used force to disperse the crowd. Sonia Gandhi and Manmohan Singh were taken by force to the Parliament Street police station.
10:45 am: Sonia Gandhi has concluded her speech.
10:35 am: Sonia Gandhi is speaking now.
We have assembled here to send a message: Sonia Gandhi
We have to send a message so strong that people sitting in Raisina Hill and Nagpur sit up and listen: Sonia
Do not try to frighten us or defame us. Life has taught us to fight: Sonia
These people can label anyone ‘anti-national’: Sonia
‘Inke din ab poore hogaye hai’: Sonia
Do not make the mistake of thinking that the Congress party is weak: Sonia
We will not allow democratic institutions to be weakened or destroyed: Sonia
We are the people who have given blood and laid down our lives to protect the basic principles of humanity: Sonia
10:31 am: Congress leaders are now addressing workers at a rally before starting the march.
BJP is trying to target Congress leaders & trying to topple elected state governments: Mallikarjun Kharge
We have all come together to defend the Indian Constitution: Mallikarjun Kharge
10:30 am: At the same time, a clutch of BJP MPs have assembled at the Gandhi statue at Parliament House to protest against the Congress for its alleged corrupt practices.
So its really a clash of protests today.
10:25 am: Congress workers have begun assembling for the protest march.
Party workers ready for Congress march to Parliament. pic.twitter.com/3VtSFdmMVi
— Aaron Pereira (@aaronpereira) May 6, 2016
