Indian firm sends 'cleansing' green tea to Trump ||||
 Indian tea company 'Te-A-Me Teas' has delivered 6,000 bags of Assam green tea to presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, asking him to "cleanse" himself "for America's sake, for the world's sake." The Kolkata-based company said, "Dear Mr Trump, namaste from India, we are sending you... green tea", which fights "harmful free radicals" and has "proven to make people smarter." ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/fa099be7-8b13-4e44-b58f-69b5ae8a888e-1||||
From Lalit K Jha
Washington, Jul 14 (PTI) An Indian tea company has delivered a huge consignment containing 6,000 bags of famous Assam green tea to Donald Trump with a message to the presumptive Republican presidential nominee that it is never too late to "cleanse yourself".
"Dear Mr Trump, namaste from India, we are sending you lots and lots of natural green tea. It fights against harmful free radicals. It helps purify mind and body and regain a healthy balance. It has also proven to make people smarter. Please Mr Trump drink the tea. For your sake, for America's sake, for the world's sake," Kolkata-based Te-A-Me Teas said in a video explaining the idea of sending green tea to Trump.
"The message is simple: Mr Trump, it's never too late to cleanse yourself," the company said yesterday, a day after its representatives delivered a consignment of some 6,000 green tea bags to the Trump Towers in New York.
"Donald Trump has the whole world worried... we can't stop him, but maybe we can change him," the video said.
While the cost of the tea consignment, sufficient for four years, was not made public, Sumit Shah, Managing Director of the company said its health potential is immense.
"We believe that green tea with all its goodness can help Mr Trump and in turn benefit his country and the world at large," Shah said, adding that the consignment of tea bags is based on the presumption that the real estate tycoon would drink three cups a day.
"If he needs more, we'll be happy to provide. Green tea has been proven to fight against harmful free radicals and cleanse the mind and bodies, helping one regain a healthy balance," Shah said, adding that these green teas can help change Trump for the better.
