Development measures announced for North Bengal ||||
 West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced a slew of development initiatives for North Bengal. She announced the formation of a tea directorate to address plantation issues including the welfare of tea garden workers. Also, the North Bengal Board of Sports and Games will start functioning under the chairmanship of former footballer Baichung Bhutia to promote sports, Banerjee added. ||||
 PTI ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c04890f8-4172-4c77-a816-6a5dda04022a-1||||
Siliguri (WB), June 29 (PTI) West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee today announced a slew of development initiatives for North Bengal after holding an administration meeting here.
She announced that from now on, a tea directorate, under the chairmanship of Sourav Chakroborty, will work to address all issues confronting the plantations including welfare of tea garden workers.
To promote sports in the region, the North Bengal Board of Sports and Games will start functioning under the chairmanship of former footballer Baichung Bhutia. He will be assisted by two Deputy Chairpersons - Mantu Ghosh and Mon Ghising, Banerjee said.
There will be two members in the Board as well - cricketers Wriddhiman Saha and Shibshankar Pal, the Chief Minister said.
Banerjee said Tenzing Norgay Bus Terminus here will be upgraded to international standard with one floor given to private sector for revenue generation and the ground floor will be thoroughly revamped.
As part of exploring the tourism potential of the region, which is close to the borders with Nepal, Bangladesh and Bhutan, aeroplane service to Malda and Balurghat will commence soon with an MoU signed with Airports Authority of India, she said.
The Chief Minister said the North Bengal Development Council will work in coordination with the North Bengal Development Department and new Council Chairperson Abdul Karim Chowdhury and Deputy Chairpersons Harkabahadur Chhhetri and Bhaichung Bhutia will work as a team.
She also said unfinished projects should be completed in time.
President Pranab Mukherjee will stay in Darjeeling from July 12 to July 14 on the occasion of Nepali poet Bhanu Bhakta's birth anniversary, Banerjee said.
