Charge parking fee for extra cars: Delhi HC ||||
 Delhi HC on Wednesday declared that housing societies can impose charges on residents who park "extra" cars within society premises and directed a businessman who owned four cars to pay 1 lakh for disputing the charges. The court was hearing the complaint against a businessman who was accused of converting the society's open space into parking area for unused cars. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/66775444-0007-0001-8522-000012345678||||
Parking “extra” cars in common areas of a residential society is “encroachment”, for which the society can “justifiably” impose charges, the Delhi High Court held Wednesday.
Businessman Anup Mittal, whose four-member family owns four cars, had refused to pay the parking charges on “extra cars” fixed by Kanungo Cooperative Group Housing Society in east Delhi’s Patparganj and challenged the move before the Registrar of Societies, and then the high court.
In its judgment, a bench of Justice Gita Mittal and Justice I S Mehta imposed costs of Rs 1 lakh on Mittal for disputing the charges imposed by the residential society and “wasting the resources” of the society and the Delhi government on the litigation.
“The society has complained that unused cars and scooters are lying parked in the common areas of the society, whereby the members have converted the valuable open space into permanent parking of their vehicles which are in disuse. So long as a vehicle is parked in the open area, no one else can use it for any purpose. Therefore even transient parking of any open areas beyond the basement is certainly encroachment, albeit temporary, and cannot be treated as anything else,” held the court.
Stating that “perceptions that a person’s prosperity are relatable to his address and the vehicle he drives, has led to this paradox of people effecting property and vehicle acquisitions way beyond their real needs”, the bench also observed that people in the capital also needed to reminded of the principles of civic responsibility, and should be encouraged to reduce use of personal vehicles. “The common areas are meant for utilisation by all members…”
The court held that the “levy of penalty for bringing in extra vehicles has to be considered a welfare scheme for the benefit of the members of the society and their families”, which was legally permissible “under the powers of the General Body” under the provisions of the Societies Registration Act and Rules.
“Looked at from any angle, occupants who do not own a vehicle or only a single car have been compelled to suffer the discomfort of vehicular crowding and environmental degradation by such acts. Not only the pollution from the exhausts of cars, the movement of vehicles certainly would cause dust to rise into the atmosphere adding to the particulate pollution in the atmosphere in the society,” observed the bench.
“The present case illustrates what a problem acquisition of vehicles, not guided by need, can create. Just because the petitioner could afford four cars, he has acquired them, unmindful of whether he has the place to park them or not. Having acquired such vehicles… the petitioner is asserting a right over spaces to which he has no exclusive right,” said the bench.
