Those who were defeated hindering Parliament: PM ||||
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday attacked the Opposition Congress for causing hindrance to the Parliament session. "Those who have been defeated and sent home are saying now that we've been destroyed we'll destroy you (ruling side)," Modi said. "Disrupt, Destruct and Demolish is now the Congress slogan... They've made a joke of Parliaments functioning," he added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/87876391-0013-0012-2157-000012345678||||
With Parliament paralysed, Prime Minister Narendra Modi today launched a blistering attack on the Congress saying its only programme is to “destroy” the country because it cannot reconcile to defeat in the Lok Sabha polls.
“Disrupt, Destruct and Demolish” is now the Congress slogan brushing aside President Pranab Mukherjee’s counsel for debate, dissent and decision for Parliament to function, he said in his broadside, a fortnight after he reached out to them in a bid to sort out differences over the GST bill.
“Those who have been defeated and sent home are saying now that we have been destroyed we will destroy you (ruling side) too, whatever happens to the country. We will not let Parliament run,” he said in an obvious reference to the Congress’s stalling tactics, especially in the Rajya Sabha, without naming the main opposition party.
“They have made a joke of Parliament’s functioning,” he said addressing a gathering at a function organised by Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam (SNDP), an outfit of the backward ezhava Community whose votes the BJP is hoping to woo in the Assembly elections in the state due early next year.
The event was marred by a controversy with Chief Minister Oommen Chandy being told to stay away after being invited at the instance of SNDP yogam chief Vellapalli Natesan who received the prime minister. On the occasion, Modi unveiled a statue of former chief minister R Sankar, who hailed from the ezhava community and belonged to the Congress.
Modi recalled President Mukherjee’s speech in Kolkata on Sunday where he said there are three D’s through which Parliament functions and these are debate, dissent and decision.
In an apparent reference to Congress citing Mukherjee’s remarks on intolerance, he said the Congress has the habit of quoting him every now and then and “run it for 15 days” but they are not ready to take note of what he had said in Kolkata.
“They have eaten the 3 Ds. They like only one D which is destruct–that is disrupt, destruct, demolish. They have only this D. They have forgotten President’s three Ds,” Modi said.
“Our path is the 3 Ds shown by the President and the 4th D for us is development,” he said, amidst cheers by the assembled audience.
