India successfully tests interceptor missile ||||
 India successfully test fired its indigenously developed supersonic interceptor missile on Sunday off the Odisha coast. The missile is capable of destroying hostile ballistic missile and will help in strengthening India's Missile Defence System. The interceptor is a single stage solid rocket propelled guided missile equipped with its own mobile launcher and a hi-tech computer among others. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/c96c2df2-132b-4561-8631-306cda87fb6a-1||||
In its effort to have a full fledged multi-layer Ballistic Missile Defence system, India on Sunday successfully test-fired its indigenously developed supersonic interceptor missile, capable of destroying any incoming hostile ballistic missile, from a test range off Odisha coast.
“The test conducted to validate various parameters of the interceptor in flight mode has been successful,” Defence Research Development Organisation sources said.
The interceptor was engaged against a target which was a naval version of Prithvi missile launched from a ship anchored inside Bay of Bengal, taking up the trajectory of a hostile ballistic missile.
The target missile was launched at about 11.15 hours and the interceptor, Advanced Air Defence (AAD) missile positioned at Abdul Kalam island (Wheeler Island) getting signals from tracking radars, roared through its trajectory to destroy the incoming hostile missile in mid-air, in an endoatmospheric altitude, the sources said.
“The ‘kill’ effect of the interceptor was ascertained by analysing data from multiple tracking sources,” a DRDO scientist said.
The interceptor is a 7.5-meter long single stage solid rocket propelled guided missile equipped with a navigation system, a hi-tech computer and an electro-mechanical activator, the DRDO sources said.
The interceptor missile had its own mobile launcher, secure data link for interception, independent tracking and homing capabilities and sophisticated radars, the DRDO sources added.
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
