China rejects incursion allegation in Arunachal ||||
 China on Wednesday rejected allegation of incursion by its troops in Arunachal Pradesh, saying the Sino-India border has not yet been demarcated. It further added that the soldiers of the People's Liberation Army were conducting "normal patrols" alongside the Line of Actual Control. The two countries have reportedly held 19 rounds of boundary talks so far to resolve border tensions. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/493456d6-5866-4707-9ea6-8a50fe30c6fc-1||||
China Wednesday rejected allegation of incursion by its troops in Arunachal Pradesh, saying the Sino-India border has not yet been demarcated and the soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army were conducting “normal patrols” on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control.
“China and India border has not yet been demarcated,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Lu Kang told media briefing here answering a question of reports of 250 Chinese troops entering Yangste, East Kameng district on June 9.
“It is learnt that China’s border troops were conducting normal patrols on the Chinese side of the LAC (Line of Actual Control),” Lu said.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
The big contingent of PLA soldiers stayed in the area for few hours and left for their base, the reports said.
The incursion into Arunachal Pradesh came at a time when China is opposing India’s entry into the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) on the ground that India has not signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).
Beijing, which is reportedly backing Pakistan’s application into the 48-member nuclear club controlling the nuclear commerce, is calling for consensus about admission of the new members.
On the issue of incursions, China has been maintaining the same stand whenever its troops crossed into the Indian side of the LAC stating that both countries have difference perception about it.
While both sides in recent years managed to reduce tensions between the troops patrolling the disputed areas with various mechanisms, China has not responded positively to India’s proposal to demarcate the 3,488 km of the LAC to avoid border tensions.
The two countries have so far held 19 rounds of boundary talks by Special Representatives.
