Bihar govt withdraws second case against Lalu ||||
 The Bihar government on Wednesday withdrew a case registered against RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav for stopping a government-appointed photographer in an RJD roadshow during the 2014 General elections. This is the second case against Prasad that has been withdrawn in the last 15 days. Bihar's BJP unit accused the government of being "too selective in case of Lalu Prasad". ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/89919177-0014-0001-8619-000012345678||||
In the second such instance in 15 days, the Bihar government has withdrawn a case against RJD chief Lalu Prasad. On Wednesday, a Patna court dropped a case registered against Lalu for preventing a government-appointed photographer from shooting a RJD roadshow during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.
Lalu had held the roadshow at Parsa Bajar under Pataliputra Lok Sabha constituency, from which his daughter Misa Bharti had contested unsuccessfully.
The chargesheet in the case had been filed on May 27, 2015 and it was withdrawn on Wednesday on the request of the public prosecutor. Before this, on January 19, a Patna court had withdrawn a case against 265 RJD workers, including Lalu and his minister sons Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, related to a bandh called by the party on July 27, 2015.
The quashing of the second case against the RJD chief has the state BJP up in arms, with its leaders demanding that the government either withdraw “frivolous cases” against political activists across party lines, or “not get too selective in case of Lalu Prasad.”
BJP legislature party leader and former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said, “Thankfully, fodder scam cases are not within the purview of the state government, or Lalu Prasad could have gotten them withdrawn too.”
“This is the height of political appeasement by Nitish Kumar,” Modi told The Indian Express.
The case quashed on Wednesday was lodged in 2014. Lalu had been booked for obstructing a government official from doing his duty as he allegedly did not allow a photographer appointed by the district administration, on instructions of the Election Commission to shoot a RJD roadshow.
RJD spokesperson Manoj Jha, however, said, “The government made a request to withdraw the case purely on merit. These are frivolous cases and there have been past instances of withdrawal of such cases. The BJP is bereft of any work or agenda.”
