DDCA case: Amit Shah summons MP Kirti Azad ||||
 BJP chief Amit Shah on Friday summoned MP Kirti Azad after Azad said he "is determined" to expose the corruption within Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) and will conduct a press conference to reveal it all. Shah reportedly asked Azad to avoid making public statements against party leaders. Earlier, Azad was summoned by BJP general secretary Ram Lal. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/03397086-0005-0012-2629-000012345678||||
With BJP MP Kirti Azad determined to go ahead with his press conference on alleged corruption in Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) during Finance Minister Arun Jaitley’s term as its president despite warnings from party leadership, BJP chief Amit Shah summoned him again on Friday.
However, Azad said he will conduct the press conference on Sunday at 4pm. Sources said Azad argued that he was not going against the party, the Prime Minister or the BJP chief.
He also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popular slogan “Na Khaoonga, Na Khane Doonga” and that the BJP came to power with the campaign against corruption.
The BJP MP was on Thursday summoned by the party’s general secretary Ram Lal.
Shah is learnt to have told Azad not to go public against a senior party leader. The move, he said, would damage the party’s image.
Azad is planning to meet mediapersons with details on alleged irregularities in DDCA.
The AAP and the Congress have alleged largescale corruption in DDCA during Jaitley’s tenure as president of the cricket body. Both parties have demanded Jaitley’s resignation on the issue.
Shatrughan Sinha seeks probe 
New Delhi: Parliamentarian Shatrughan Sinha Friday sought an inquiry into allegations of corruption in the DDCA when it was headed by Finance Minister Arun Jaitley. Sinha had earlier questioned the timing of the raid at the office of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s principal secretary. Praising party colleague Kirti Azad, who has levelled allegations against Jaitley in the past and is now preparing to “expose” him further Sunday, Sinha said a probe would clear the air over the allegations.
Sinha said: “It would be in the interest of both the parties that there is a probe. Honesty and transparency must go together.” He added that Azad, who he called “worthy son of worthy father ( Bhagawat Jha Azad)”, must have levelled the allegation after “doing his research and with understanding”.
Sinha, however, said that he was not demanding that Jaitley step down.
