JLR opens first facility outside UK in Brazil ||||
 Tata Motors-owned Jaguar Land Rover on Wednesday announced the opening of its 240 million (around 2,280 crore) manufacturing facility at Rio, Brazil, the firm's first establishment outside of the UK. It will manufacture Range Rover Evoque and Land Rover Discovery Sport at the facility. The establishment will also house an education centre for training 12,000 local children every year. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/77f6886c-6563-496b-97d9-07a988570708-1||||
Tata Motors-owned Jaguar Land Rover announced the opening of its 240 million pounds (around Rs 2,280 crore) manufacturing facility and education business partnership centre at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The new facility will build both Range Rover Evoque and Land Rover Discovery Sport for Brazilian customers. The vehicles will be sold via dealers across Brazil from June itself, the company said in a statement on Wednesday, without disclosing the production capacity of the facility.
“The creation of new international factories allows JLR to offer its customers even more exciting new models, protect against currency fluctuations and create a globally competitive business,” the company said.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
JLR’s new factory at Itatiaia in Rio de Janeiro is the first wholly-owned overseas facility outside of Britain pursuant to its global expansion strategy. As of now, the company operates a Chinese joint venture factory set up in 2014, the firm said.
“The opening of JLR’s new world-class facility in Brazil marks the latest exciting milestone in our global expansion,” JLR Executive Director, Manufacturing, Wolfgang Stadler said.
He further said Land Rover is already Brazil’s market leader for midsized premium SUVs, accounting for over 30 per cent of sales in that segment.
The plant includes JLR’s first overseas Education Business Partnership Centre, which will provide a range of classroom activities for up to 12,000 local children every year, the company added.
JLR has been present in the Brazilian market for more than 25 years. Brazil is one of the top 15 markets for the company. Range Rover Evoque, Range Rover Sport and Land Rover Discovery are the largest selling vehicles in Brazil. It has 35 dealers covering all the main territories of the country.
