Sisodia seeks priority for Delhi students in DU ||||
 Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia has written to the Centre seeking priority for Delhi's students during admissions in 28 Delhi University (DU) colleges which are being funded by the state government. Further, he said that students from the capital should be allotted five percentage points in these colleges. He also demanded a separate entrance test for DU's admissions. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a0291679-2f4f-4674-9324-49c637716c7b-1||||
Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has written to HRD Minister Smriti Irani for a separate entrance test for admission into Delhi University. Sisodia has also suggested allotment of five percentage points for students from the capital in those DU colleges that get government funds.
“In my opinion, a university like DU should have a separate entrance test for admissions. This will ensure all students get an opportunity to study in the varsity depending on their talent. Delhi government is giving 300 crore rupees to fund 28 Delhi University colleges. That is why Delhi students should be given priority in these colleges by allotting a weightage of five percentage points. In these 28 colleges, this should start from this year,” Sisodia has stated in the letter.
Watch Video: What's making news
On the second day of DU admissions Friday, Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, had made a similar demand, saying students from the city should be given preference over those from other states in admission to the central university.
The deputy chief minister observed that the number of students passing Class XII was increasing in Delhi every year, but the number of seats in DU remained the same.
“Due to this disproportionate students-to-seats ratio and huge influx of students from other states, a huge chunk of students in the national capital have to opt for private universities,” said Sisodia.
He has suggested that Delhi students could be given preference in three ways. “They could be offered some percentage relaxation over students from other states; they could be given some quota during the admission process; or they should be preferred for admissions to colleges funded by the Delhi government.
