Mum: Now apply for character certificate online ||||
 Mumbai Police on Wednesday launched an online application process for police character certificates in an attempt to reduce the processing time to 10 days. Applicants "will have to visit the local police station just once for the verification procedure," police officials said. The authenticity of the online certificates can be verified using a serial number, they added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/a5409d41-3dbe-434e-a4a8-acf22e01b422-1||||
Mumbaikars applying for police character certificates no longer need to make several trips to the police headquarters as they can apply for it online.
The facility has been introduced from May 11.
In addition, the Mumbai Police, while introducing the online application process, promised that what normally used to take a few months, will be curtailed to a 10-day affair.
The first certificate that was generated online was handed over to the applicant by the Mumbai police commissioner on Thursday evening.
A police character certificate is needed by those seeking jobs abroad, applying for job of security guards or applying for companies linked to the security agencies that insist on getting a character certificate from applicants, To obtain the character certificate, the applicants have to approach the Special Branch (SB) of the Mumbai Police for verification, following which the certificate is granted.
However, in order to get the certificate, the applicants have to visit the SB office, located in south Mumbai, at least four times.
Additional commissioner of police RD Shinde, currently holding additional charge of the SB, said they issue nearly 80,000 character certificates each year.
“With the procedure being taken online, the applicant will have to visitwww.pcs.mahaonline.gov and get himself registered with his mobile number. He will have to visit the local police station just once for the verification procedure.”
“If all conditions are met, within 10 days, the certificate will be uploaded online. The applicant can then take a printout,” Shinde said.
DCP (SB – 1), Ankush Shinde said, “The organisation where the applicant submits the certificate can cross-check the authenticity of the certificate with the serial number printed on the certificate. This will prevent any misuse of the facility.”
WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE
