Sonia's Varanasi roadshow cancelled over illness ||||
 Congress President Sonia Gandhis roadshow in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi was cancelled midway on Tuesday after she reportedly fell ill and reportedly left for Delhi on her doctors advice. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished her speedy recovery on Twitter, Congress leader Pramod Tiwari said, "She (Sonia Gandhi) will be completely fine and will see Modi governments eradication to its end." ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/711e8af5-9c9d-41a3-9271-ecb7adefd006-1||||
Congress President Sonia Gandhi’s roadshow in Varanasi was terminated midway after she reportedly fell sick. Sonia cut short her visit and left for Delhi on her doctor’s advice. “Saddened that due to my ill health, I had to cut my visit to Varanasi short. Couldn’t visit Kashi Vishwanath Temple either. I will come back very soon, and then visit the Kashi Vishwanath Temple,” said Gandhi.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was elected to Parliament from Varanasi, wished her speedy recovery. “Heard about Sonia ji’s ill health during her Varanasi visit today. I pray for her quick recovery & good health,” PM Modi tweeted. Sourced told news agency ANI that the prime minister spoke to Sheila Dikshit and enquired about Sonia’s health. PM Modi reportedly offered to send a doctor to treat her and a plane to fly the Congress president back to Delhi.
Congress leader Pramod Tiwari told reporters that Sonia was completely fine and she just felt a bit tired. “Sonia ji is completely fine, she just felt a little tired. She will be completely fine and will see Modi government’s eradication to its end,” he said.
Sonia accused the Modi government of paying “special attention” towards a handful of industrialists and neglecting the the poor.
“This is a government of a handful of people, a handful of industrialists and it pays special attention to their needs. No one bothers about the poor, backward, minorities and our beloved sisters. A large section of the country is feeling neglected and weak and apprehensive about its future,” she said in a statement issued here.
WATCH VIDEO: Keystrokes: Sonia Gandhi, Sheila Dikhit Have An Eye On UP
 
“The palace built on false promises cannot last long, people will soon call it to account and would give a befitting response to their false promises,” she added.
READ: Eyeing Dalit, Brahmin votes, Congress takes on Modi in ‘home turf’
Sonia arrived in the temple town Tuesday as part of the Congress’ Uttar Pradesh poll campaign. She began the roadshow today morning from Circuit House after garlanding B R Ambedkar’s statue. She was accompanied by the party’s chief ministerial candidate Sheila Dikshit, AICC General Secretary Gulam Nabi Azad, UPCC Chief Raj Babbar, senior party leaders Pramod Tiwari and Sanjay Singh.
Sonia crisscrossed Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi’s constituency in a vehicle with an open sunroof as supporters showered her with flower petals. Hundreds of Congress workers carrying placards with the message ’27 Saal, UP Behaal’ led the roadshow. The party has decided to kickoff their campaign in Varanasi to highlight how Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi has ‘failed’ in developing the constituency in the last two years. The Congress president was also scheduled to visit Kashi Vishwanath temple in the evening to offer prayers.
Varanasi is a key place in eastern Uttar Pradesh having some 160 of the 403 Assembly constituencies in the state. Congress had only won two seats — Amethi and Rae Bareli — in 2014 Lok Sabha polls, while BJP and its ally Apna Dal secured 73 seats out of total 80.
