Pak must observe Black Year for breeding terror: BJP ||||
 Slamming Pakistan for its call to observe July 19 as 'black day' over Jammu and Kashmir protests, BJP on Saturday said Pakistan should instead observe a "Black Year" for breeding terrorism. Such "theatrics" will not change the reality that Pakistan "helps terrorist(s) launch attacks against India" and supports terrorism to an extent which is "harming its own citizens", BJP added. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/895eac86-8f96-414a-a98f-36ef1e3eb81f-1||||
Lashing out at Pakistan for observing ‘Black Day’ over the deaths of the Kashmiri people, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday said the Asian neighbourhood should instead observe ‘Black Year’ for breeding terrorism.
“All this has no value. They are trying to somehow create a political mileage. But the larger question is given the number of people who die in Pakistan by the terror machineries, that the Pakistani establishment or non state actors have created, perhaps, they need to celebrate a black year of what Pakistan has done to itself,” BJP leader Nalin Kohli told reporters.
He said the theatrics are not going to change the reality that Pakistan is a county which breeds terrorism.
Watch Video: What’s making news 
“Theatrics are not going to change the reality that Pakistan is a country which helps terrorist, launch attacks against India and the same time breeds terrorism to such an extent which is now also harming its own citizens,” he added.
The BJP leader’s remark comes after Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said that Pakistan will observe July 19 as a ‘Black Day’ to protest against what he described as ‘Indian barbarism’ in Jammu and Kashmir following the protests over the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Muzaffar Wani.
Sharif proposed the observance of ‘Black Day’ while chairing a special meeting of his Cabinet in Lahore on Friday, to discuss the situation in Jammu and Kashmir.
His proposal was accepted by the Cabinet, state-run Radio Pakistan reported.
Sharif and Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry recently angered India by referring to Wani, a commander of the banned Hizbul Mujahideen, as a ‘Kashmiri leader’ and describing his death as an ‘extrajudicial killing’.
At least 37 people have died in the protests following Wani’s killing last week.
India dismissed Pakistan’s criticism of its handling of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and accused the Asian neighbour of using terrorism as an instrument of state policy.
