HBO releases pics from 'Game of Thrones' finale ||||
 HBO has released pictures from the final episode of the sixth season of the television series 'Game of Thrones', which is slated to air on June 27 in India. Some of the characters featured in the pictures include Daenerys Targaryen, Tyrion Lannister, Bran Stark, Ser Davos and Jaime Lannister among others. Notably, the season finale will be 69 minutes long. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 https://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/7ff04125-1107-40c9-a7d5-b643a8d9e42d-1||||
HBO has been extremely secretive about their Game of Thrones series — and rightfully so — leaving the audience to speculate on what could happen the very next
moment in this popular American fantasy drama show.
But recently, HBO released six pictures from the last episode of Game of Thrones which is a surprise and is taking the net by storm as everyone is busy speculation what might happen. Let’s take a look:
WATCH VIDEO: Game Of Thrones Season 6: The Best & The Worst
 
There are speculations that Cersei Lanniester’s time has come and she might be doomed very soon or she could go mad if The Mountain is killed by The Hound, or there are speculations that even Jamie might be forced to kill her.
Also, return of Bran Stark in the finale is a good news though it is tough to gauge his next move.
“You’re in the great game now, and the great game is terrifying,” says Tyrion to Daenerys in the episode trailer. The worried expressions on both their faces indicate that all is not well, though things do look up for the mother of dragons.
The Lannisters are heading for war and what we think is that they are probably going to take down Winterfell because if we remember the Starks revived Winterfell after Ramsay Bolton’s death.
Davos might take revenge against Melisandre for burning Shireen alive.
Jaime Lannister and Walder Frey having a drink together may not seem to worrisome, but some fans think this was right before the Red Wedding, part 2. In the finale trailer, Frey says: “The Freys and the Lannisters send their regards.” This gives the Red Wedding theory some spark. Will Jaime be tempted to take revenge for Catelyn Stark’s murder? After all, she did release him.
Loras Tyrell was accused of being homosexual and faces trail by High Sparrow and could probably face dead.
