Afzal Guru's son scores 95% in 10th board exams ||||
 Ghalib Guru, the son of 2001 Parliament terror attack convict Afzal Guru has scored 95% in the 10th standard board examinations. Jammu and Kashmir Board released the results on Sunday, and Ghalib scored 474 out of 500, securing A1 grade in all five subjects. Notably, Afzal Guru was executed on February 9, 2013. ||||
 The Indian Express ||||
 http://full-story.newsinshorts.com/v1/article/05842100-0009-0001-5874-000012345678||||
Galib Afzal Guru, son of deceased terrorist Afzal Guru, has scored more than 95 per cent marks in the Jammu and Kashmir Board of School examinations, securing 19th position in the Valley. The results were declared on Sunday evening. Around 29,162 students appeared in the Matric examinations and 14,716 have cleared the test.
A class X student of Shah Rasool Memorial School, Sopore, Galib scored 474 marks out of 500. He credited his success in the examination to his family and school teachers.
“The credit of my success goes to my family who always strived hard for me as well as my teachers who guided me properly,’’ said Galib, who is now planning to continue his education in Baramulla where his grandparents live.
“Initially, I used to study for two hours daily, but when the examination dates were announced, I dedicated more time towards my studies. Today, my hard work has paid good results,’’ he said.
Galib, who is also a cricket buff, said that he is interested in pursuing medicine.
“I want to pursue Medical Education and want to become a doctor. It is the dream of my parents and family that I become a doctor and I will try to fulfill it,’” he said.
Galib’s relative Abdul Ahad Guru was Valley’s top cardiologist and Afzal Guru was also pursuing Medical Education before he left the course midway.
Galib who is currently living with his grandparents at Azad Ganj Baramulla said that he is planning to seek admission either in Saint Joseph’s Higher Secondary school or Public School, reputed institutions of North Kashmir.
Galib’s mother, Tabassum who played a pivotal role in the up bringing of Galib as a lone parent termed Galib’s achievement a pride moment for the entire family, however, she said that her son could have bagged more marks. “I am not happy over the marks, I think my son could have a potential to secure more marks as he is a brilliant student,’’ she said.
Tabassum said that on this occasion, Galib misses his father Afzal Guru. “He (Galib) had a close attachment with his father. Had he (Afzal) been alive we could have celebrated this moment. For every parent, achievement of their children is a great moment in the life,” she siad. Galib was only two years old when Afzal Guru was arrested.
Galib was only two years old when Afzal Guru was arrested. He was executed in 2013 for his role in the Parliament attack case.
